
	HARARE - One lucky customer walked away with $10 000 in cash at Edgars Stores Fashion Extravaganza shop and win promotion. 
	The leading clothing retail company and fashion house in Zimbabwe, held the Fashion Extravaganza shop and win promotion for the eighth consecutive year on Saturday. 
	Caren Makisi from Gweru won the $10 000. She has been informed of her big win.  Six lucky customers got to participate in a trolley dash, grabbing clothes of their choice in a specified time. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	This year the draw was held at Joina City branch and was characterised by pomp, fanfare, discounts and loads of giveaways for shoppers. 
	The annual fashion and social extravaganza ran from the October 1-31  in all Edgars stores. 
	Organisers said the promotion heralds the launch of summer, educating customers on the season’s key fabrics and style in line with current trends. 
	Fashion Extravaganza, which is synonymous with glitz and glamour, this year ran under the theme “Back to Basics”. 
	Edgars Group marketing executive and spokesperson Rumbidzai Dzimba said the theme “Back to Basics” was an embodiment and demonstration of the beauty in simplicity — but still exuding Edgars trademark style and elegance. 
	“Simply put in true fashion sense, less is more,” Dzimba said. 
	In previous years, revered South Africa fashion icon David Tlale and renowned actress Sophie Ndaba graced the event. Dzimba said 2017 was a year of retracing footprints and reconnecting with the Edgars brand #FOREVEREDGARS. 
	Edgars has been clothing the nation for over seven decades. 
	“With emerging trends in the 21st century, Fashion Extravaganza celebrates all things fashion and our customers who form the basis of the chain’s existence have given us tremendous support,” Dzimba said. 
	“It’s because of our customers Edgars continues to reign and rock the fashion world.” 
	Dzimba said the month of October was a busy month in the world of Edgars, with plenty of in-store activities showcasing a variety of new and basic wardrobe staples sure to suit every taste. 
	Customers’ shopping experience was transformed into shopper’s paradise as there were instant giveaways coupled with a world-class shopping environment. 
	 