
	HARARE - While FC Platinum and Dynamos battle it out for the PSL title, there are other issues to be decided at the other end of the Castle Lager Premiership table. 
	There is also an interesting relegation battle as four teams go into the final day of the season knowing they are in danger of playing in the less fashionable Division One league next year. 
	In one of the closest relegation battles in the league history, just as the title race, the battle to avoid relegation will be decided on the final day. 
	Two teams — Bantu Rovers and Tsholotsho — have already kissed goodbye to the premiership and the other four teams are still battling to avoid that last relegation spot with Harare City, Bulawayo City, Hwange and Shabanie Mine all stumbling towards the finish line. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	Going into the last round of action, Harare City, who sit third from bottom need nothing short of three points when they host How Mine at Rufaro Stadium, but that on its own may not be enough to secure their place in the top flight. 
	The Sunshine Boys made life difficult for themselves following last weekend’s 0-2 defeat at the hands of Hwange at the Colliery. For them to survive they need to collect maximum points against How Mine while praying Bulawayo City and Hwange lose in their last matches. 
	Bulawayo City, who occupy the last relegation spot could be saved if they pick maximum points against Bantu Rovers while Hwange drop points at ZPC Kariba. 
	Shabanie Mine only need a draw at home against Yadah  who have already survived the chop. 
	In the event that Hwange and Shabanie Mine both pick maximum points, Bulawayo City and Harare City will go down. 
	A draw for Hwange might not be enough as wins for both City teams would send them out. 
	Speaking to the Daily News ahead of today’s must-win encounter, Hwange coach Bigboy Mawiwi said  “We are in a tough situation. There is still a lot to play for. Our game against ZPC Kariba is a must-win for us. We need to win at all costs. It’s going to be a tough though. 
	Fixtures: 
	Today: Shabanie Mine v Yadah (Maglas), Harare City v How Mine (Rufaro), ZPC Kariba v Hwange (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Black Rhinos (Dulivhadzimo), Bulawayo City v Bantu Rovers (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Triangle United (Baobab), Highlanders v CAPS United (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Chicken Inn (National Sports), Chapungu v FC Platinum (Ascot) 
	 