
	HARARE - President Emmerson Mnangagwa has appointed Cabinet Ministers with immediate effect. 
	The appointments are as follows: 
	CABINET MINISTERS 
	1. Patrick Chinamasa – Minister of Finance and Economic Planning 
	2. Obert Mpofu – Minister of Home Affairs and Culture 
	3. Air Marshall Perence Shiri – Minister of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement 
	4. Dr Lazarus Dokora – Minister of Primary and Secondary Education 
	5. Dr David Parirenyatwa – Minister of Health and Child Welfare 
	6. Kembo Mohadi – Minister of Defence, Security and War Veterans 
	7. Ziyambi Ziyambi – Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs 
	8. Major General Sibusiso Moyo – Minister of Foreign Affairs 
	9. Kazembe Kazembe – Minister of Sports, Art and Recreation 
	10. Dr Mike Bimha – Minister of Industry, Commerce and Enterprise Development 
	11. July Moyo – Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing 
	12. Sithembiso Nyoni – Minister of Women and Youth Affairs 
	13. Professor Amon Murirwa – Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development 
	14. Supa Mandiwanzira – Minister of Information Communication Technology and Cyber Security 
	15. Professor Clever Nyathi – Minister of Labour and Social Welfare 
	16. Dr Jorum Gumbo – Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development 
	17. Winston Chitando – Minister of Mines and Mining Development 
	18. Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri – Minister of Environment, Water and Climate 
	19. Priscah Mupfumira – Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry 
	20. Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo – Minister of Energy and Power Development 
	21. Chris Mutsvangwa – Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services 
	22. Simbarashe Mumbengegwi – Minister of State for Presidential Affairs and Monitoring of Government Programmes 
	  
	MINISTERS OF STATE FOR THE PROVINCES 
	1. Angeline Masuku – Minister of State for Bulawayo Metropolitan Province 
	2. Miriam Rutendo Chikukwa – Minister of State for Harare Metropolitan Province 
	3. Monica Mutsvangwa – Minister of State for Manicaland Province 
	4. Martin Tafara Dinha – Minister of State for Mashonaland Central 
	5. Webster Shamu – Minister of State for Mashonaland West 
	6. David Musabayana – Minister of State for Mashonaland East 
	7. Cain Mathema – Minister of State for Matabeleland North 
	8. Abednico Ncube – Minister of State for Matabeleland South 
	9. Josiah Hungwe – Minister of State for Masvingo 
	10. Owen Ncube – Minister of State for Midlands 
	11. Dr Christopher Mushowe – Minister of State for Government Scholarships in the Presidents Office 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	DEPUTY MINISTERS 
	1. Terrence Mukupe – Deputy Minister for Finance and Economic Development 
	2. Davis Marapira – Deputy Minister for Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement 
	3. Professor Paul Mavima – Deputy Minister for Primary and Secondary Education 
	4. Victor Matemadanda – Deputy Minister for War Veterans 
	5. Pupurayi Togarepi – Deputy Minister for Youth Affairs 
	6. Joshua Malinga – Deputy Minister for Social Welfare 
	 