
	HARARE - The Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) president Philip Chiyangwa will this morning fly out to South Africa for tonight’s second leg of the Caf Confederation Cup final between SuperSport United and DR Congo’s TP Mazembe. 
	Chiyangwa was invited by his counterpart and Safa president Danny Jordaan through a letter. And speaking ahead of his departure, Chiyangwa said he would use the opportunity to finalise dates on the scheduled SA Legends and Warriors Legends match. 
	“I was invited by Safa president (Danny) Jordaan and as you are aware that we will be hosting a Legends match between the two countries, I think it also provides us with an opportunity to iron out issues to do with dates,” Chiyangwa said to the Daily News. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“I had proposed to have the match played between December 22 and 23 but the actual dates will be advised though.” 
	Chiyangwa said he also intend to use the same opportunity to organise an international friendly match for the national team on the same day the Legends play to honour President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who took the reins yesterday. 
	“I am still finalising on which team the Warriors can play that same day. Remember most players will be on break even from Europe so we want to look for a strong opponent that can play against the Warriors...,” added Chiyangwa. 
	 
	ZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa 
	SuperSport go into the second leg of the final at Lucas Moripe Stadium trailing 2-1 against title-holders TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
	Mazembe are seeking an 11th Caf title and SuperSport a first in the African equivalent of the Uefa Europa League. 
	Apart from the joy that winning a final brings, the teams will be battling to pocket a record $1,25 million first prize. 
	History, however, favours United as the three previous clubs to lose first legs by one goal in Confederation Cup finals all emerged winners on aggregate. 
	Chiyangwa also had some words of encouragement for SuperSport saying: “I am sure they will win. I have watched a few of their matches in this tournament and they are a very strong side. 
	“They just need to stay positive and believe in themselves. 
	 