
	GUJARATI - Hwamanda Dance Troupe illuminated the opening day of Flo International Dance Festival in India with a scintillating display that won kudos from the organisers. 
	The 13-member dance group, which hails from the Harare suburb of Mufakose, is taking part in the two-day festival held in Ahmedabad in Gujarat, courtesy of the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority in conjunction with Indian embassy in Harare. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	The Zimbabwean group showcased chinyambera, jerusarema, madane and dinhe among other dances much to the delight of the partially full Shreyas Foundation arena. 
	The Zimbabwe group performed alongside Indian groups from states such as Gujarat, Manipur, Assam, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Punjab. Vietnam also took part. 
	Flo International Dance Festival director Shilpa Bhagat Patel praised Hwamanda for travelling to India despite the current impasse in Zimbabwe which followed seizure of power by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces. 
	“We would like to commend the Zimbabwean group Hwamanda for their commitment to the showbiz industry. They have chosen to travel to India despite the political turmoil happening in their country. 
	“Initially, we had thought of cancelling the festival as we are also in election period but we considered the resilience and passion demonstrated by the Zimbabweans who travelled all the way to India to showcase their culture that is why we continued with the event,” said Patel. 
	The Mufakose-based Hwamanda is a well-travelled dance group that has won acclaim in several countries. They have previously toured China, Denmark, Sweden, Egypt, Seychelles, Algeria, Japan, the United Kingdom, Zambia and South Africa among others. 
	Hwamanda manager Linnot Laimbo told the Daily News they use Zimbabwean dances to market the country. 
	“We were so delighted to be part of this cultural exchange programme. The response from the audience was awesome as we showcased our traditional culture through dance. 
	“Chinyambera was performed by hunters while jerusarema is an initiation dance. Madane involves acrobatics. It was meant to portray African men particularly Zimbabweans as strong people. Dinhe was performed to celebrate good harvests,” the 40-year-old group leader said. 
	 