
	HARARE - Events of the past few days have shown how important it is for Zimbabweans to guard against being used by politicians for their own selfish gains. 
	Former president Robert Mugabe’s wife, Grace, is one individual who enjoyed having people making a beeline to attend her rallies while government business ceased completely. 
	This whole campaign started as early as 2014 when Grace addressed rallies clobbering political opponents she felt stood in her way to land the highest political office in the land. 
	Joice Mujuru was accused of being a witch “zimuroyi rekuDotito” (the witch from Dotito) as people followed blindly behind her. 
	Kudzanai Chipanga has become a classical example of how not to do things, following the press conference he addressed admonishing Zimbabwe Defence Forces commander Constantino Chiwenga and the army, obviously at the bidding of Generation 40 (G40) kingpins who have since gone into hiding. 
	Chipanga’s masters have since disappeared and he has been left alone to face the music. It is going to be very difficult for Chipanga to undo whatever he did with that infamous address. 
	It must have been a G40 style to use others in order to achieve certain political goals. Mandiitawepi Chimene — who went into hiding after getting wind of the fact that the armed forces were after her — publicly slammed President-designate Emmerson Mnangagwa at the Zanu PF headquarters last year as the party’s factional fights took an ominous turn. 
	Even the Church has not been spared in this. Recently, apostolic sects converged at Rufaro Stadium for the “Super Sunday” rally which was officiated by none other than Mugabe’s wife. 
	It turned out to have been a platform to once again slam Mnangagwa. A number of Cabinet ministers, particularly those associated with the now-vanquished G40, attended the gathering and took turns to bash Mnangagwa all round. 
	Of all institutions, the Church should never be seen to be in the forefront of fanning division and sowing seeds of enmity. Rather, they should help build bridges by mediating where there is conflict so that peaceful resolutions that benefit society at large are reached. 
	However, because generally our politicians are greedy, they prey on the desperation of members of the public, offering them money and food in return for their support. 
	The lessons Mugabe’s experiences have taught the people are difficult to forget. The very people who thronged different stadia across the country to cheer him on are the same people who turned into his sworn foes. 
	 