
	HARARE – The King of Ring Ghetto Explosion boxing tournament which was scheduled for this month has since been moved to next month, organisers of the tournament Deltaforce Boxing Academy have revealed. 
	Initially, the event was scheduled to take place today at the Mbare Netball Complex but will now be held on December 15, at the same venue. 
	Deltaforce Boxing Academy boss Clyde Musonda said the current political environment has forced them to push the tournament forward. 
	“Due to the current social-political atmosphere and the unfolding of events that our beloved nation Zimbabwe is experiencing, the Deltaforce Boxing Academy, Gypsite Electrical and Civil Contractors thought it prudent not to divert attention and decided to move the dates,” he said. 
	“We have unanimously decided to shift the tournament to December 15, and the venue remains the same. This move is to grant our fans and colleagues time to digest and celebrate the new developments as we all join hands in appreciating and receiving a new Zimbabwe.” 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	Apart from the recent success story of Charles Manyuchi, boxing has in the previous years taken a retrogressive step in the country largely due to lack of sponsorship. 
	 
	Charles Manyuchi 
	And this has compelled Deltaforce Boxing Academy to embark on a mission to 
	revive the sport and have since roped in Gypsite Electrical and Civil Contractors with the ultimate goal being the staging of monthly tournaments. 
	Musonda has since acquired a top boxing ring from South Africa and which is expected to arrive in the country next week. 
	Eight bouts are on the bill with the main bout featuring Tinashe Mwadziwana and Tinashe Mutodza who will battle it out for the Zimbabwe Super Bantamweight title. 
	The main bout will feature Collen Mavhundutse and Simon Madhanhire who will be battling it out for the Heavyweight in a six-round fight. 
	Fight card: Tinashe Madziwana v Tinashe Mutodza (Super Bantamweight), Collen Nyamambishi v Simon Madhanhire (Heavyweight), Liberty Muwani v Thembani Mhlanga (Super Welterweight), Nicola Mutonhora v Enock Mushayambudzi (Super Middleweight), Patience Mastara v Chiedza Hombakomba (Female Bantamweight), Philip Musariri v Partson Mtengwa (Super Lightweight), Trevor Mpofu v Vincent Muziri Heavyweight), Blessing Kachigwada v Martin Tshuma (Super Welterweight) 
	 