
	HARARE - The Heath Streak School of Cricket opens its doors to cricketers with at least 25 selected playing schools from Harare invited to participate in the inaugural launch at Sunrise Sports Club, in Ridgeview today. 
	This is the first stage of development which will take place at the proposed Heath Streak International Cricket Stadium at the Sunrise Sports Club an initiative by the legendary ex-Zimbabwe cricket team captain and current national team head coach and his Indian counterpart Joseph Rego, an Indian sports management icon. 
	Rego who is also the chief executive and executive director of the Heath Streak International said current international cricketers — Hamilton Masakadza and Elton Chigumbura together with former Test spin-maestro Ray Price will join Streak during the coaching clinic among a host of other international and domestic cricketers this afternoon. 
	 
	Heath Streak - founder of Heath Streak School of Cricket 
	Old Mutual have extended their support for the project just like they have done with the Bulawayo initiative — The Old Mutual Heath Streak cricket facility which stands as one of the duo’s biggest developmental success stories so far. 
	“...25 selected cricket playing schools from across the city have been invited for the occasion and our doors are open to every cricket loving school and child in this nation. 
	  
	“...we are establishing our second initiative — a world class cricket facility in Harare which subsequently will turn into an International Cricket Stadium capable of hosting First class and international cricket games in the coming years,” Rego told reporters during a press briefing at Sunrise Sports Club on Thursday evening. 
	“Zimbabwe lacks in the development of the sport. 
	“Emphasis on our structured grassroots level development programmes and the formation of various age groups identifying, nurturing and grooming genuine talent will take the game to another level.” 
	Rego also said the girl-child is a large part of the initiative’s plans and they will strive to provide equal opportunities for the female cricketers in sport and education. 
	“...We will also inspire and motivate the girl child to get involved in playing cricket and engage in outreach programmes to support young talented girls to train and coach the Academy. 
	“We have appointed former and current international cricketers and professional coaches capable of providing leadership, direction and quality programmes which result in the development of the game at the grassroots level,” added Rego. 
	“...will adopt a coaching education approach that targets individuals both males and females four to 16 years of age who are seriously interested in the game of cricket which takes the targeted players through a set of disciplinary, dietary, mental, psychological, technical and physical fitness activities. 
	“We need to expose our cricketers with cricketing interests, knowledge and methodologies that can be utilised to develop a high level of professionalism. 
	“Our aim is to nominate players to attend provincial age-group trials relevant to ability and potential. 
	“We are passionate about the sport and our aim is to ensure that our talented cricketers have the very best opportunities and a first class future which will help Zimbabwe regain her past sporting glory.” 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	 