
	HARARE - Harare City were yesterday relegated from the Castle Lager Premier League despite a narrow 1-0 win over How Mine and a divorce with coach Philani Ncube may not be too far behind. 
	A William Manondo first half goal was not enough for the Sunshine Boys as Bulawayo City’s 4-0 victory over Bantu Rovers at Luveve Stadium meant the council-owned side will be playing in the less fashionable world of Division One. 
	When the final whistle blew, a dejected Ncube, acknowledged he would welcome the decision by the team’s management regarding his future. 
	“It’s something that will haunt me throughout my career. I have never found myself in this situation that I am in today but well, life goes on if possible we need to go back to the drawing board and prepare for the future,” Ncube said after the match. 
	“The decision on my future should come from two parties and it does not depend on me alone. I think the team’s management and myself need to decide and if it means I should leave then let it be. If it means going to division one with the boys I have no problem with that.” 
	Ncube said his team lacked enough depth to compete with the other teams in the league. 
	  
	“Honestly, we didn’t have depth. We lacked depth. If you look at the other teams in the top six they are made of seasoned players. So we needed people who are mature who can withstand the heat, who cannot buckle under pressure.” 
	How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu praised his charges for holding their own under what he termed “difficult circumstances.” 
	“It was probably one of my most difficult seasons and if there is one thing that I have always said during the course of the season is that I appreciate the effort of these players,” said Kaindu. 
	“I never thought we would go this far. I don’t even have words to just appreciate them for putting so much effort under very difficult circumstances. Even when playing today, you don’t know who you are going to field. It has been difficult, it has not been easy. 
	“I think we had started our season well but we had our own in-house problems which I think cost us so much.” 
	Harare City have now joined Bantu Rovers, Tsholotsho and Hwange in relegation. 
	Hwange’s fate was sealed after they lost 2-0 to ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga Stadium. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	 