
	HARARE - Zimbabwe Cricket (ZC) managing director Faisal Hasnain says the current office setup at the association’s headquarters at 28 Maiden Drive in Highlands, Harare hinders communication and given a choice would want an open office plan. 
	Open plan is the generic term used in architectural and interiors design for any floor plan which uses of large, open spaces and minimises the use of small, enclosed rooms such as private offices. 
	A good example is that which is found in various newsrooms. 
	“We need to make the premises more conducive to exchange of communication. Right now we are disjointed, we have three separate units. This is a house and unfortunately really doesn’t help with communication...we have little boxes and we are cut off from each other,” Hasnain told the Daily News. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“If I had my way for next year I would have an open plan office with all the members of staff in the same room closer to each other. I will have two meeting rooms where people can go if they want to have meetings. I want to come in and see my whole team there. 
	“People want to be confined in their office which is fine, one can sit in their offices but communication has to be there between the team and that’s when we can understand each other better... and communicate as a team. That’s what I always do but the problem is I don’t have money.” 
	Hasnain, a former International Cricket Council chief finance officer served the international cricket governing board for 12 years between March 2002 to 2008 and July 2008 to December 2016. 
	He worked closely with ZC on ICC business and when he tendered his resignation in December last year, the local cricket governing body who were on red alert roped him in April this year as he replaced Wilfred Mukondiwa who officially retired in June. 
	“I hope this can be achieved. We are already talking to the Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC). I believe SRC potentially have may have office space in the SRC complex where the football stadium is located,” Hasnain added. 
	“We are already talking to them to see if in future, at some stage they can accommodate us, either that or if we can’t afford that I may have to knock down some walls here (Maiden Drive) to create the space so that we can all communicate with each other and have offices that are conducive because at the end of the day we can’t ignore it. 
	“If you are shut out there away from your office somewhere else and your colleague is there and another one there it’s going to create problems...yes phones are there but there’s no substitute for sitting and talking like we are now.” 
	 