
	HARARE - Devine Assignments — the promoter of South African socialite Zodwa Wabantu’s on-and-off tour of Zimbabwe — say the controversial personality will come to Zimbabwe on the “earliest possible date.” 
	Zodwa abruptly called off a three-city tour of Zimbabwe early this month citing her fear of long-serving former President Robert Mugabe. 
	But the resignation of Mugabe — who is not a fan of Zodwa’s short dress with no panties signature style — has put the controversial South African’s tour back on the table. 
	Devine Assignments director Biggie Chinoperekwei told the Daily News yesterday that they will soon engage Zodwa in a bid to agree on a new date. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“We will come up with a new date but this could be complicated by the fact that we are now in the peak season. 
	“Since she is the one who called off her tour early this month, we are more than happy and ready to host her,” said Chinoperekwei. 
	 
	Zodwa Wabantu 
	The Devine Assignments boss’ statement follow recent press reports in South Africa indicating that Zodwa is now keen to tour Zimbabwe as a result of Mugabe’s resignation. 
	Zodwa Wabantu claimed in an interview with TshisaLIVE that she had already contacted Devine Assignments to reschedule her second tour of Zimbabwe. 
	“I am happy about the announcement (Mugabe’s announcement) and we are already planning to go to Zimbabwe. We are talking with our promoter to find dates and are in the process of coming up with something 
	“I will be coming soon. I love all my fans there and they must celebrate as much as they want and uplift the country,” Zodwa was quoted as saying. 
	Early this month, Zodwa who was banned by government from participating in the Harare International Carnival last September, told the Daily News that she could not come to Zimbabwe because of her fear of former Zimbabwean president Mugabe. 
	“I am scared to come. Mugabe said I should stay away from Zimbabwe,” she told the Daily News yesterday from her South African base. 
	The South African socialite’s fears arose from Mugabe’s denunciation of her during a Presidential Youth Interface rally held in Bindura in September. 
	“I’m sorry we disappointed many men . . .You just come without covering your decency. What do you want? Men to see you? We don’t want such,” Mugabe said then. 
	 