
	HARARE - Bulawayo City coach Mandla “Lulu” Mpofu is concerned about facing an already-relegated Bantu Rovers side this weekend in a match they need a result to save their Castle Lager Premiership status. 
	Amakhosi played out a goalless draw against outgoing champions CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. 
	City should have won the game as they completely dominated an out-of-sorts Makepekepe side that only managed a single shot on target throughout the 90 minutes. 
	The draw left Amakhosi in 15th place in the last relegation spot with 36 points and now desperately need to beat Bantu in their last game of the season and hope results elsewhere go their way. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	Even a win against Bantu, who were relegated last month, might not be enough for Amakhosi in the event that Hwange and Shabanie Mine on 37 and 39 points respectively win their last matches. 
	Mpofu is, however, not losing hope that his side can pull a Houdini act by securing their survival.  
	“The only thing we can control now is our last game against Bantu Rovers. Whatever happens to the other teams is not important; we really need to win our last game,” he said after the draw with Makepekepe. 
	“The only thing I can do as a coach is try to channel our energy to our last game which is very important as we need to win it at all costs. These things do happen in football and we cannot control the result but today we played beautiful football, creating good clear-cut chances which we couldn’t convert.” 
	The former Young Warriors coach is fully aware that Bantu could prove to be a banana skin for his side if they are complacent. 
	At the weekend, Tshintsha Guluva gave title-chasing Dynamos a tough run for their money before losing 3-2 at Barbourfields Stadium.   
	“It’s going to be a very difficult game. Of all the games we have played this season, the game against Bantu is going to be the most difficult for us,” Mpofu said. 
	“It’s going to be one of the biggest games for us this season ever. Bantu have been relegated but I think they are one of the best teams I have seen play. 
	“Those youngsters are just unbelievable but I just have to psyche up my boys because we need to go there and play like a team that really needs to survive.”           
	Mpofu is confident though that his side can beat Methembe Ndlovu’s youngsters considering the recent performances.  
	“When we played Dynamos last week, we played brilliantly but couldn’t find the back of the net,” he said. 
	“Against CAPS, we played brilliantly again to get a point when people didn’t give us a chance after we lost to Dynamos.” 
	 