
	HARARE - The Netherlands is planning to inject funding to small-scale farmers in Zimbabwe aimed at boosting pineapple production. 
	Eosta BV, a European market leader in the trade of organic fruits and vegetables, in collaboration with Zimtrade, the Netherlands Enterprise Agency and Topsector, are currently embarking on a project to capacitate Chipinge small-scale farmers to produce organic pineapples for export to the Netherlands. 
	“The main objective of the project is to assist farmers who are producing the Queen Victoria variety of pineapples to attain organic certification which will enable them to access the niche market in the European Union (EU),” ZimTrade said. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	Under the partnership, the Netherlands Enterprise Agency will provide the funding for farmers to get their products certified while Eosta BV will be the lead buyer of the pineapples, with ZimTrade and MadeTop as the local partners. 
	The project will initially start with 48 farmers who have already been identified. 
	The EU is the largest and fastest growing market for fresh pineapples, accounting for 46 percent of the world’s total consumption of the product. 
	According to Trade Map, the total consumption of pineapples by the EU stood at 1,3 million tonnes in 2016, which presents great potential for pineapple growers in Zimbabwe. 
	Within the EU, the Netherlands is the leading consumer, with a 21 percent market share in 2016. This market, which has grown by 12 percent in the last five years, from $210 million in 2012 to $235 million in 2016, has developed rapidly. 
	The latest development comes at a time when Zimbabwe is making efforts to grow its horticulture exports to $200 million by 2020. 
	Zimbabwe’s horticultural exports reached a peak in the 1999/2000 season with exports of $143 million, which was 10 percent of total exports, contributing about 4,5 percent to the country’s gross domestic product, making horticulture the second major foreign currency earner in the agricultural sector after tobacco. 
	Horticultural exports nose-dived between 2000 and 2008, when the country embarked on a disastrous land reform programme aimed at addressing colonial land imbalances, before bouncing back to $71 million in 2012 and $96 million in 2015. 
	Last year, exports took a knock to $83 million, prompting the Zimbabwe Farmers Union to organise farmers into groups and commodity associations to improve service delivery, access to domestic and regional markets. 
	One of the groups under ZFU is the Zimbabwe National Horticulture Producers Association, which has structures from ward to national level that facilitate training to enhance competitiveness and market linkages. 
	 