
	HARARE - Harare City, basking in the glory of their second Chibuku Super Cup triumph, have confirmed that they will be participating in the 2018 Caf Confederation Cup.  
	The Sunshine Boys wrote their own piece of history in the tournament’s history by becoming the first team to lift the Chibuku Cup twice since it returned three years ago following a deserved 3-1 victory over troubled How Mine at Rufaro Stadium. 
	How Mine, whose season had been characterised by chronicled financial challenges with players going for months without payment, froze at the last hurdle when it mattered most as they allowed a determined City to score three goals inside eight minutes in the second half. 
	Edwin Madhanhanga’s goal and a William Manondo brace handed Philani “Beefy” Ncube’s men a $75 000 cheque and a ticket to represent the country in the Caf Confederation Cup next year. 
	Harare City will also be playing in the newly-launched tournament the Castle Lager Challenge Cup against this year’s league winners.  
	With the business end of the season very much upon us, log leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars, FC Platinum, Dynamos and Chicken Inn are still all in with a chance to lift this title. Harare City chairperson ‎Alois Masepe confirmed that the club will be back in Africa next year. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“Well done to the board, well done to the technical team, well done to the executive, well done to the board of trustees and well done to everyone who is behind the team’s success including our supporters,” Masepe said.  
	“What I can say is Africa here we come. We want to go and do better than what we did the last time we participated. Then it was a learning curve and this time I think we know the tricks and we want to compete.” 
	Harare City won their first Chibuku Super Cup in 2015 after beating Dynamos 2-1 in the final at the National Sports Stadium and went on to represent the country in Africa. 
	Their stay in the Caf Confederations Cup was, however, cut shot after being knocked out in the first round by Zambian side Zanaco. City coach Ncube was pleased his team’s win but wants to quickly forget about and shift their focus to the relegation fight. 
	“It was a good win for us but it’s now water under the bridge and we need to quickly start thinking of our remaining matches in the league. I think it’s a good achievement for the team especially after enduring a difficult season,” Ncube said. 
	“The boys have risen to the occasion and I don’t know how they are going to respond in the remaining three matches. The Chibuku Super Cup is done now and we wait to see how we will fare in the league matches. 
	“We hope to produce the same performances because the remaining three matches will determine our future. One thing for sure is that the team will survive come end of season.” 
	Harare City’s triumph on Saturday in the Chibuku Super Cup final presented a perfect opportunity for them to generate extra momentum in the fight for survival. 
	The Sunshine Boys have had an indifferent season which has left them just above the relegation zone with 35 points from 31 matches and are in a serious fight for survival. 
	“They lost 2-1 to Triangle in their last league match to leave them with a mammoth task in their remaining games. 
	They resume their fight for survival with a date against Black Rhinos on Wednesday. 
	 