HARARE - National Basketball Association (NBA) star Luc Mbah A Moute, who jetted into the country yesterday, said he was on a mission to develop the sport in Zimbabwe. The Cameroonian power forward, who plays for the LA Clippers, is here to conduct the Luc Mbah A Moute Top 50 Basketball Camp at Eaglesvale School in Harare which began yesterday and runs till tomorrow. After the camp he will also have an opportunity to travel to Masvingo for a similar programme being organised by local vehicle sports group iBelieve Sports Academy. &ldquo;I have been on basketball camps in Cameroon and other countries in Africa for a little while now, we are partners with iBelieve Sports Academy director Allan Mavunga. We talked about it when we were in Angola,&rdquo; A Moute told reporters on arrival yesterday. &ldquo;I thought it was a good idea to come here and see how I can help the kids here (and see), how I can help basketball. &ldquo;Basketball is such a great game; it has no boundaries so I feel like any kid deserves a chance. If there&rsquo;s kids here who can play then we gonna try and help them out but my goal personally is just to develop the sport and help the kids.&rdquo; Mavunga said their intention as iBelieve Sports Academy was to ignite the passion of young Zimbabwean basketball players so they aim to play in the NBA, something which was not afforded his generation.&nbsp; &ldquo;We are excited about having an NBA players coming to Zimbabwe for the first time ever . . . it&rsquo;s been my dream because I left Zimbabwe in 2004 on a basketball scholarship to the States and has always been my dream to have an NBA player to come to Zimbabwe which has been fulfilled 13 years on,&rdquo; Mavunga said. &ldquo;What we are trying to do is develop the game of basketball in Zimbabwe, inspire these young guys that even if you are from Africa you can still make it to the top Luc here is an example, he&rsquo;s from Cameroon but he&rsquo;s now an NBA star and is doing big things in the States and he&rsquo;s doing some good work in Africa trying to develop basketball.&rdquo;