HARARE - Ngezi Platinum Stars coach Tonderai Ndiraya said they would not allow Thursday night&rsquo;s defeat to Dynamos dent their confidence as the Castle Lager Premiership reaches the half stage. The Platinum miners blew a 2-1 lead before going to lose 3-2 to the Glamour Boys at the National Sports Stadium. DeMbare got their goals from Denver Mukamba, Ocean Mushure and Christian Ntouba while Terrence Dzvukamanja and Dominic Mukandi were on target for the visitors.&nbsp;&nbsp; The defeat meant Ngezi Platinum Stars remain on second place on the log table with 26 points from 13 matches and only trail leaders Black Rhinos by goal difference. Ndiraya&rsquo;s charges have however played one game more than the army side. &ldquo;That has been our story this season we are creating so many chances but we are failing to put them away. We just have to go back plan and move on,&rdquo; Ndiraya said. &ldquo;This is part of football you win some and lose some. The good thing is that we are still at the top there and we just need to try and pick up maximum points in our next match. To us this is a huge setback and it was really unfortunate. &ldquo;We are still in it and we are not under any sort of pressure. In football defeats teach you things, they teach you that every game is difficult and the players know that.&rdquo; Ngezi Platinum welcome bottom placed Bantu Rovers in their next fixture at Baobab Stadium tomorrow and Ndiraya is not taking any chances. &ldquo;We need to approach the game with the right mind, we cannot underestimate them because of the position on the log table,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We will approach it with the same attitude as if we are playing any other teams in the league. For us I think we need to pick maximum because we cannot afford to keep on dropping points at this stage. It&rsquo;s important that we return back to winning ways.&rdquo; Fixtures: Today: ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Chicken Inn (Dulivhadzimu) Tomorrow: Harare City v Triangle United (National Sports), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Bantu Rovers (Baobab), Chapungu v Dynamos (Ascot), Highlanders v Hwange (Barbourfields), Bulawayo City v Yadah (Luveve), Shabanie Mine v Black Rhinos (Maglas), CAPS United v How Mine (Postponed)