HARARE &ndash; Graeme Cremer is a perfect gentleman and no doubt why he chose to play the gentleman&rsquo;s game of cricket. Rarely do you see the reserved Zimbabwe Cricket captain make an issue about umpiring decisions but when he does you ought to give him some benefit. Zimbabwe went down to Scotland by 26 runs after the Duckworth-Lewis method during Thursday&rsquo;s rain-affected first One Day International in Edinburgh. Scotland scored 317/6 before Zimbabwe were made to chase a revised target of 299 runs in 43 overs. After winning the toss, the hosts elected to bat and were inspired by captain and opening batsman Kyle Coetzer&rsquo;s 109 runs and half centuries by Craig Wallace (58) and Michael Leask&rsquo;s unbeaten 59. Zimbabwe left-arm spinner Sean Williams picked two wickets while fellow spinners Cremer and Sikandar Raza as well as pace bowlers Richard Ngarava and Tendai Chatara grabbed a wicket apiece. Openers Hamilton Masakadza and Solomon Mire (40) put up a promising start before the former was runout for 38 runs in the 11th over before Craig Ervine was caught for a three-ball duck. The departure of Mire in the 18th over saw Williams notch 70 runs from 59 including nine boundaries and a six before he was caught behind in the 30th over. It later turned out to be a Waller show as he brought about optimism of chasing down the target before he was dismissed in controversial circumstances eight runs short his century. Waller was adjudged to have been caught out at the boundary while in essence the fielder was outside the field meaning it was supposed to be signalled a six. Zimbabwe protested initially for close to a minute with Waller remaining stuck on the crease before reluctantly walking off. &ldquo;...Very disappointed to start the tour like that, some good performances but we were a bit disappointing with the bowling despite it being a good wicket,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;So good batting by Williams and Waller, thought Malcolm may have won us the game if it was not for the controversial catch. &ldquo;So Malcolm was caught on the boundary but clearly the fielder had stepped over the boundary, but claimed the catch, and umpires decision did not go in our favour...can happen when games are not televised.&rdquo; Zimbabwe will be hoping for better fortunes in today&rsquo;s final match before they proceed to Netherlands for three 50 over matches scheduled for June 21, 23 and 25. From there, the side will travel to Sri Lanka for five ODIs and a single Test.