BULAWAYO - Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) chief executive officer Karikoga Keseke has revealed that he has approached Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa seeking the launch of command tourism. Kaseke told delegates here during the official launch of the 2017 edition of the Sanganai/Hlanganani Tourism Expo last week: &ldquo;I was talking to the vice president (Emmerson Mnangagwa) that why don&rsquo;t we introduce command tourism. &ldquo;We must introduce command tourism so that those who are doing what we don&rsquo;t want to do they stop. They will be commanded to stop. &ldquo;Those who are not doing what they are supposed to be doing they must be commanded to do it. It&rsquo;s an idea; you can laugh at it but I am serious when I talk about command tourism.&rdquo; This comes as the ZTA boss also expressed his displeasure with the stunted growth in tourism over the past decade. &ldquo;As we are celebrating 10 years of Sanganai Expo, we have seen our tourism growing from 1,5 million to 2,2 million tourism arrivals,&rdquo; Kaseke said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not something to celebrate. For 10 years we only increased our tourism arrivals by only 700 000. It&rsquo;s not good,&rdquo; he dejectedly noted. Kaseke further noted that the performance of Zimbabwe in the tourism sector was not impressive as compared to other countries. &ldquo;Other countries are increasing their tourism in a manner that you would admire. I was in Malaysia 10 years ago. Then they had tourism international arrivals where they were introducing their brand they were receiving slightly above 5 million tourists, last year they received 31 million. &ldquo;When Malaysia was at five million, we were at 1,5 million. Malaysia today is at 31 million and we are at 2,2 million. We know what has slowed us down but let&rsquo;s forget about that, we must look at how we can increase our tourism arrivals,&rdquo; he said. Meanwhile, as part of the preparations for this years&rsquo; Sanganai/Hlanganani expo to be held in the second largest city from September 27 to October 1, Kaseke said the anniversary will be a blast. &ldquo;We are going to be celebrating 10 years of Sanganai, we are going to be honouring people who supported Sanganai for the past 10 years and we will be giving them awards on a date to be announced.&rdquo;