HARARE - The burial of the late liberation stalwart and musician Dick &ldquo;Cde Chinx&rdquo; Chingaira in Harare yesterday was most notable for the absence of senior Zanu PF and government officials. The 61-year-old Cde Chinx &mdash; who died in Harare last Friday after battling cancer &mdash; was interred at the Glen Forest Memorial Park. His family passed on the chance to bury him at Harare Provincial Heroes Acre &mdash; instead opting to have him interred at Glen Forest. A huge gathering, predominantly made up of war veterans, relatives, close friends, and ordinary people was present to witness his burial &mdash; amid anger that he was overlooked for national hero status by Zanu PF which, instead, accorded him liberation war hero status, in a move which was roundly condemned by Zimbabweans across the political divide. Not one Cabinet minister or notable Zanu PF bigwig &mdash; among the thousands of ruling party overlords which he had interacted with during the liberation struggle and in post-independent Zimbabwe &mdash; made themselves available to give him a fitting send-off. Only Harare State minister Miriam Chikukwa attended the burial together with Zanu PF Harare provincial political commissar Shadreck Mashayamombe, who claimed bigwigs were tied up at a ruling party workshop and at another burial. &ldquo;Vanhu vabatikana (Many were tied up), there were many programmes today,&rdquo; Mashayamombe said. &ldquo;There was also a workshop at Zanu PF headquarters and we also have another comrade, a former PC for the province Onismo Gore ari kuchemwa kuMbare (whose burial is in Mbare), so we can&rsquo;t say people did not come, everyone had a lot on their plates.&rdquo; Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association spokesperson Douglas Mahiya said: &ldquo;We thought the ministers would be here, because their presence would give Chinx the respect that he deserved.&rdquo; &ldquo;Chinx was singing for the nation, there was need for the nation to reciprocate. &ldquo;In church, you praise and worship and God comes down, so we expected them to come down so that people will appreciate the value of what Chinx sang about. &ldquo;There is not a single person that was not encouraged by his music. God help us. To us, he is a national hero,&rdquo; Mahiya said. War veterans&rsquo; leader Chris Mutsvangwa said Zanu PF had missed a chance to make history by interring the first musician at the national shrine. &ldquo;What we would like to say is heroes are everywhere . . . some get recognised, some don&rsquo;t. Chinx represented the arts part of the war . . . if we are ever going to have an artist at (the National) Heroes&rsquo; Acre; probably the most deserving one was Chinx.&rdquo; Family spokesperson Deeds Chingaira could not be drawn into commenting on the snub, choosing to thank the ruling party for assisting Cde Chinx &ldquo;during his time of need&rdquo;. Chikukwa narrated Cde Chinx&rsquo;s path from the time he joined the liberation struggle in 1975 up to his death.