HARARE - Highlanders coach Erol Akbay believes Black Rhinos will be driven by the desire to maintain their barnstorming start to the 2017 season when the two sides clash in the Castle Lager Premiership this afternoon at Morris Depot. The Bulawayo giants travel to the capital hoping to build on their last home win against Triangle. But they are facing a team that is high in confidence and punching above its weight. Chauya Chipembere, who returned to the top flight league after winning promotion in the Zifa Northern Region Division One League last season, are riding high and currently sit on second place on the log table with 23 points from 11 matches. Stanford &ldquo;Stix&rdquo; Mutizwa&rsquo;s charges have played a game less than log leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars, who are on 26 points. However, Akbay insists he has prepared his players for the game diligently as Bosso try to ensure they stay within touching distance of the leading pack. &ldquo;We will respect them, because it will be a really difficult game,&rdquo; Akbay said to the Daily News. &ldquo;Every game is dangerous. We need to prepare well for the game and respect our opponents. It will be a big mistake if anyone thinks this will be an easy game for us. We will do our best to get the three points. &ldquo;For me nothing changes in my work and how I prepare, but we never lose our focus. All of us have one goal. &ldquo;Tomorrow (today) is a big game and once again we need to prove that we want the win more than our opponents.&rdquo; Bosso currently sit on position sixth on the log table with 20 points having played 10 matches. They recently lost three points which were awarded to Dynamos following crowd trouble which caused abandonment of their game last month. Elsewhere, Chapungu welcome Bulawayo City at Ascot this afternoon hoping to continue with their newly-found form. In their last match, Chapungu forced a goalless draw against Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab Stadium. Chicken Inn, who have not been consistent this season host ZPC Kariba at Luveve while Shabanie Mine travel to Gibbo Stadium for a date against Triangle. Fixtures: Today: Chapungu v Bulawayo City (Ascot), Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (Luveve), FC Platinum v Harare City (Mandava) Black Rhinos v Highlanders (Morris Depot), Triangle United v Shabanie Mine (Gibbo) Tomorrow: Bantu Rovers v Tsholotsho (Luveve, 1pm), How Mine v Yadah (Luveve, 3pm), Dynamos v Ngezi Platinum (National Sports Stadium, 7pm).