HARARE &ndash; Sportivo handed newboys Mutare Sports Club (MSC) their first defeat of the 2017 Intercity Rugby League season following a 51-3 hiding at Harare Sports Club on Saturday. The home side ran in eight tries of which four were converted and a single penalty during a lopsided encounter. Takudzwa Kumadiro scored three tries, Lucky Sithole (twice) while Hilton Kamanda, Great Gombera, Zephanie Nkomo crossed the try line once. MSC, who had been unbeaten in five previous matches, have a busy few weeks ahead of them starting with Saturday&rsquo;s match as they take on the top sides in the division. Against Sportivo, the visitors had a tough afternoon which was summed up by the halftime pep talk by their guest coach Prayer Chitenderu. &ldquo;I told you we are coming to the lions&rsquo; den and it is obvious that we were going to lose but we gonna (sic) learn,&rdquo; the former Sables flank could be heard barking to his players. At that time, the home side had gone into the break leading 19-0. Although, MSC managed to get onto the scoreboard via a penalty by Amson Makumbe in the second period, Sportivo were in a nonsense mood as they posted a huge victory. After the match, MSC coach Mckenzie Munetsi tipped his side to bounce back from the huge defeat. &ldquo;Well it had to come (the defeat) and what a better way for it to come, from the best and like I said we are always learning and we have learnt from what happened today (Saturday),&rdquo; Munetsi said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure we are going to bounce back, you gonna (sic) see us we gonna (sic) play the same team remember they are gonna (sic) come to Mutare.&rdquo; Faced with a tough fixture that will also see them play against Mat Warriors, Old Georgians and Old Hararians in consecutive weekends, Munetsi is not losing any sleep. &ldquo;Worry is not an issue here. It&rsquo;s what you do after you lose and like I have said we are learning and we continue learning,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Rugby is not won in one day or one season. I&rsquo;m sure if you remember very well last season we never won, not even a game and we were playing the same teams and that alone tells you a lot. &ldquo;This defeat actually made us realise where we need to work...rugby is evolving... we playing the big boys now and this is winter all the big games in winter so will definitely come out of winter stronger. From this game we have learnt a lot &mdash; shift defence definitely one of them and proper one time tackling is one thing we were lacking and hence we gave these guys a little bit of momentum.&rdquo; In other Intercity Rugby League matches played on Saturday, Police Defenders registered a shock 36-29 win over Mat Warriors away at Hartsfield Stadium in Bulawayo while Old Miltonians thumped Gweru 34-16 in Gweru.