HARARE - CAPS United turned on the heat in the second half as they finally bounced back to winning ways with a convincing 3-0 victory over struggling Bantu Rovers in a Castle Lager Premiership match last night. Well-taken second half goals by Ronald Chitiyo, Dominic Chungwa and substitute Amon Kambanje were all the Green Machine needed to pick up their third win of the season to take their tally to 13 points having played eight matches. &ldquo;Winning games always boosts our confidence and we are happy with the victory today. We hope to take this form into our next game in the Champions League against Tripoli,&rdquo; CAPS assistant coach Tostao Kwashi said. &ldquo;We still have to work hard. This is teamwork and whoever is chosen to start should come to the party and the boys did just that.&rdquo; It was an impressive response from Lloyd Chitembwe&rsquo;s charges having failed to pick up maximum points in their last two league matches and a thumping 2-4 defeat to Libyan side Al Ahli Tripoli in an African Champions League match. With the Green Machine struggling with a series of injuries, Chitembwe was forced to make several changes to his starting lineup. In came goalkeeper Prosper Chigumba in place of Edmore Sibanda who is struggling with an injury while Jorum Muchambo was relegated to the bench. There was also no place for the injured Dennis Dauda, Ronald Pfumbidzai, Hardlife Zvirekwi and Tafadzwa Rusike as they were all rested. Valentine Musarurwa, Zvikomborero Biserk, were all given rare starts. In the first period, Makepekepe struggled for fluidity as they failed to break down the Rovers defence. Chitiyo finally broke the deadlock a minute after the break when he scored with a wonderfully taken shot from the edge of the box that caught out the visitor&rsquo;s goalkeeper Stephen Chimusoro. Six minutes later, Chungwa increased the Green Machine&rsquo;s lead with a neat finish from inside the box. Chitiyo created the goal when he released Chungwa with a through ball behind the Rovers defence. The Makepekepe forward beat Chimusoro at his near post with a rising shot and from there on it was all one-way traffic for the home side. Kambanje put the icing on the cake when he scored the third after a mistake by the Rovers defenders in the 69th minute. The midfielder had just replaced Abbas Amidu when he got onto the end of a loose clearance just outside the centre circle. With Chimusoro off his line, Kambanje sent his shot from over 30 metres into the empty net.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Rovers coach Methembe Ndlovu said: &ldquo;We were overpowered and this is a tough result. We were under a lot of pressure. It was a mismatch. Three of their players bulldozed my boys but we are not worried. There&rsquo;s still a long way to go.&rdquo;