HARARE - Local music star Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s manager, Keen Mushapaidze, says the Jerusarema singer, who performed in Chimoio, Mozambique on June 25, is getting more foreign concerts as a spin-off of his collaborations with top African stars. To date, Jah Prayzah has collaborated with African music giants Mafikizolo, Tanzanian international artiste Diamond Platnumz, Nigerian music giant Davido and Tswana songstress Charma Gal. &ldquo;The June 25 gig,&nbsp; held in Chimoio City centre, was part of celebrations to mark Mozambique&rsquo;s independence Day. This is one of several gigs outside Zimbabwe on our calendar. Clearly, we are beginning to reap rewards from duets with African stars,&rdquo; Mushapaidze told the Daily News. He added that Jah Prayzah was attracting increased interest in countries he had not performed in before. &ldquo;We will be heading to Namibia in September. In July we will be returning to Canada for gigs in Toronto and Edmonton on and in August we will be in the United States of America. In November we will return to Australia and in December we will be holding a maiden gig in Malawi,&rdquo; said the award-winning star&rsquo;s manager. Though he believes all the collaborations have played their part in popularising Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s brand outside Zimbabwe, he singled out the duet with Diamond Platnumz for special praise. &ldquo;Watora Mari was the first song to create a lot of interest in Jah Prayzah internationally. Diamond Platnumz is very strong in East Africa and in many parts of the world. Jah Prayzah benefitted a lot from this and that is why several top stars began to have an interest in collaborating with him too. &ldquo;The Mafikizolo collaboration has also been huge especially in terms of introducing Jah Prayzah to the South African market. That is why, I am sure, he was nominated for the Best African Artist at this year&rsquo;s South African Music Awards (Sama),&rdquo; he said. Mushapaidze is confident that Jah Prayzah will reap huge dividends from collaborating with Davido. &ldquo;We are releasing the duet with Davido titled &ldquo;My Lilly&rdquo; on July 7. The song has English and Shona lyrics. We are hopeful that the song will be Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s gateway into West Africa because Davido is huge there,&rdquo; he said. Sadly for Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s local fans, more foreign concerts will translate into fewer performances in Zimbabwe. Mushapaidze is hopeful that local fans will appreciate that Jah Prayzah now has an obligation to perform for his fans in other countries too. &ldquo;His brand is bigger now. He has to serve all his fans in Zimbabwe and beyond. Unfortunately for our fans here, we will hold fewer shows in Zimbabwe. As a result, this year we have held less than 15 concerts in Zimbabwe. &ldquo;Jah Prayzah has to do a balancing act now. Even his next album will include music that caters for both his local and foreign fans,&rdquo; said Mushapaidze, who revealed that the forthcoming album will be released in October. &ldquo;The songs on the album will be more like Mdhara Achauya.&nbsp; We want to cater for both the young and mature listeners.&rdquo; On Saturday, at a family show held at Belgravia Sports Club, the Watora Mari hit-maker sampled a new song titled &ldquo;Chengetedza.&rdquo; The slow and soulful song, which appears to have hallmarks of a potential hit, won over the crowd. The hundreds that braved the cold weather were treated to several of his hits including Mdhara Achauya, Chinamira, Jerusarema, Mwanasikana, Tiise Maoko, Sendekera, Soja Rinosvika Kure and Hello.