HARARE &ndash; The country&rsquo;s football fraternity was yesterday plunged into mourning following the untimely death of former Warriors midfielder Edzai Kasinauyo. The former Zimbabwe international midfielder, 42, died at the Donald Gordon Medical Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa after a short illness. Kasinauyo&rsquo;s sister Fadzi confirmed the sad news yesterday and said a family statement will be released today. Former Zimbabwe internationals Edelbert Dinha and Ian Gorowa were among those running around in Johannesburg yesterday to arrange for Kasinauyo&rsquo;s body to be repatriated back home.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The former CAPS United, Blackpool, Moroka Swallows and Ajax Cape Town midfielder had become a successful businessman since he called time on his playing career and was also involved in several football grassroots programmes. He was elected to the Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) board in December 2015 and was handed the role of development. He was, however, expelled last year by Zifa president Philip Chiyangwa after being accused of plotting to fix a 2017 Afcon qualifier between Zimbabwe and Swaziland. Kasinauyo was later cleared of any wrong doing after the charges were dropped at the Harare Magistrates Court. Zifa president Chiyangwa expressed shock and sadness over the death of Kasinauyo. &ldquo;...Zifa has learnt with shock and great sadness, the departure of its former executive committee member...Kasinauyo,&rdquo; Chiyangwa said. &ldquo;Edzai&rsquo;s professional career, both as a player and business person was inspirational and it touched many lives in Zimbabwe, South Africa and indeed the world as he came from the playing field, to the football boardrooms and the business world with enthusiasm and professionalism worth following. &ldquo;What even shocks us more is we did not hear of any illness prior to the sad news of his passing on. &lsquo;It is an undeniable veracity that he served the game of football with great distinction and his void will be extremely difficult to fill. &ldquo;He worked resolutely for the association and football at large, and we are hurt, deeply, by the loss of such a brilliant and intelligent administrator. &ldquo;On behalf of the Zifa executive committee, the assembly, the entire football family and on my own behalf, I would like to extend deepest condolences to the Kasinauyo family and the football fraternity during this painful period. &ldquo;We mourn with you and our thoughts and prayers are with you during this very difficult moment. May you all find comfort in the Almighty God and may his dearest soul rest in eternal peace.&rdquo; The Premier Soccer League also sent their condolences. &ldquo;It is with great sadness that we have learnt about the untimely death of football legend...Kasinauyo,&rdquo; PSL chief executive officer Kenny Ndebele said. &ldquo;On behalf of the PSL board of governors, clubs and staff, we would like to convey our heartfelt condolences to the Kasinauyo family, friends and the entire football fraternity. &ldquo;Kasinauyo was a dedicated man and a hard worker who achieved an incredible career as a footballer, a football administrator as well as a businessman. He will be remembered as a legend who transformed the game of football in so many ways. &ldquo;His service to football will forever be cherished. May his soul rest in eternal peace.&rdquo;