HARARE - Norman Mapeza believes the Warriors squad possesses the necessary strength to build the foundations for a successful 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualification. Zimbabwe began their Group G campaign with a positive 3-0 win over Liberia at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. Belgium-based striker Knowledge Musona scored a hat-trick that put Zimbabwe on top of the group which also includes DR Congo and Congo. It was an all-round performance from Mapeza&rsquo;s charges which left the nation with huge hopes of another fruitful campaign after qualification for the 2017 Afcon finals held in Gabon. &ldquo;It was a good game. I think we were perfect in almost every department,&rdquo; the Warriors interim coach said. &ldquo;We were compact in midfield and I think upfront we were just clinical. I can only congratulate the boys for a job well done today. &ldquo;I also want to salute the fans, they came in large numbers, they gave us maximum support. I think that&rsquo;s what we needed as a team going forward.&rdquo; With the Warriors&rsquo; next Afcon qualifier in Group G away to Congo coming next year in March, Mapeza said the team needs to maximise on the Fifa calendar dates to stay in shape. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s make use of the Fifa dates and let&rsquo;s have as many friendly matches as we can so that these guys will get to know each other better and see what happens come next year,&rdquo; he said. On his prospects of getting the Warriors&rsquo; job on a fulltime basis, Mapeza said: &ldquo;Everybody knows I am employed at FC Platinum and Zifa might decide on getting a different coach. I&rsquo;m here on a temporary basis and my only advice to the one who would come in is to keep this team.&rdquo; Midfielder Marvelous Nakamba, who was again at his best dictating the pace of the game from the middle of the park, also feels the team is in the right direction. &ldquo;I think we needed this. It&rsquo;s always important to win the first game in any campaign and our win has boosted our confidence. I think this shows we are in the right direction but we need to keep on working hard,&rdquo; he said.