HARARE - Argentinean brothers Pancho and Guillo Macloughlin will be hoping to defend their title during the annual four-team Ambassadors Cup Polo tournament set for Bushman Rock Polo Club this month. In last year&rsquo;s event the Macloughlins, who were part of the team EcoCash Kudus alongside two locals knocked off the Buffaloes Kudus with an impressive 8-7 score in the final. This year&rsquo;s edition promises to be bigger and better after real estate company Fine and Country poured in $10 000 to be the title sponsors. Bushman Rock Safaris managing director Jono Passaportis, who is also part of the organising committee for the tournament, lauded Fine and Country&rsquo;s sponsorship package. &ldquo;This means a lot in as far as the growth of polo in Zimbabwe is concerned. Polo historically has been dominated by a certain section of the community and if we do not grow out of that the sport is going to die,&rdquo; Passaportis said. &ldquo;Getting new players into the game like Fine and Country who have not been affiliated in the past and a lot more new players shows a growth in the awareness of the game. This will definitely lead to a much faster growth in the future.&rdquo; Fine and Country chief executive officer and licensee Karen Nyenga said they are excited to be part of the prestigious event. &ldquo;What we loved about what the Polocrosse Association of Zimbabwe is actually doing is that they also give proceeds from this tournament to a foundation,&rdquo; Nyenga said. &ldquo;So on the day you will actually get to know which foundation benefits as we will be handing over the cheque.&rdquo; The British Business Association have also continued their partnership with the tournament and British ambassador to Zimbabwe Catriona Laing will be the guest of the honour. The first stage of the tournament gets off the ground on June 30 with Safaguard Sables taking on Barclays Buffaloes. The Fine and Country Eland team will then take on the Fine and Country Kudus in the other round. The winners from day one will clash in the final set for July 1 with the remaining two teams competing in the third and fourth playoff.