HARARE - Champions CAPS United return to the National Sports Stadium hoping to bounce back to winning ways when they host struggling Bantu Rovers in a Castle Lager Premiership tie this evening. Kick-off is at 6pm. The Green Machine have found the going tough in their bid to fight from the local front as well as the African Safari but are desperate to rectify their errors against a Bantu Rovers side that currently occupy bottom place of the log table. Although Lloyd Chitembwe&rsquo;s charges still have five games in hand, they are not winning their matches and cannot afford to lose if they hope to defend their Castle Premiership crown. Makepekepe are winless in their last two league matches in which they lost to ZPC Kariba before being held by Triangle. Matters have also been made worse for CAPS United after injuries to some of their key players. Meanwhile, struggling Harare City have appointed former CAPS coach Mark Harrison as their technical director. Harrison will be responsible for overseeing the Sunshine Boys&rsquo; development programmes. The club also unveiled their new signings in midfielder Welcome Ndiweni and forward Warren Dube. Ndiweni and Dube were signed from Bulawayo City. &ldquo;So far we have signed only two players in . . . Dube and . . . Ndiweni. We still need to assess their fitness level, it&rsquo;s a crunch game and we cannot just throw them to the dip end,&rdquo; City coach Philani Ncube said. Ncube also announced that midfielder Tendai Samanja is the team&rsquo;s new captain and will be deputised defender Raymond Uchena and Edwin Madhanaga. Fixtures: Today: CAPS United v Bantu Rovers (National Sports Stadium, 6pm) Tomorrow: Chapungu v Bulawayo City (Ascot), Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (Luveve), FC Platinum v Harare City (Mandava) Black Rhinos v Highlanders (Morris Depot), Triangle United v Shabanie Mine (Gibbo) Thursday: Bantu Rovers v Tsholotsho (Luveve, 1pm), How Mine v Yadah (Luveve, 3pm), Dynamos v Ngezi Platinum (National Sports Stadium, 7pm)