BULAWAYO - National People&rsquo;s Party (NPP) leader Joice Mujuru has admitted that all is not well in her Bulawayo party structures, in a development she attributed to infiltration. Factionalism and tribalism are threatening to tear the party apart. Two factions, one rallying behind Samuel Sipepa Nkomo and the other one backing national executive member Cuthbert Ncube have in recent weeks been at each other&rsquo;s throat over the control of the party in the province. So hot has been the battle for supremacy between the two warring factions that the initial provincial election held on March 25 had to be aborted after violence erupted. While the last election which took place on May 29 was peaceful, the outcome was not well received by the Nkomo faction, whose members lost to the Ncube faction. With disgruntled members threatening to quit the party, Mujuru dispatched her lieutenants, John Mvundura and Sipepa Nkomo with a mandate of finding a lasting solution tearing the province asunder. Speaking for the first time over the issue, Mujuru told the Daily News over the weekend that her party was seized with the matter. She said &ldquo;there are infiltrations, if you are not very careful, this will distort the approach which the party wants to promote&rdquo;. Mujuru, however, could not mention who exactly had infiltrated her party. &ldquo;For now, as a province, we want to listen to what the people of Bulawayo say or would want to see happening now that there is this confusion which is being caused by outsiders with different thinking and some of them are not even politicians, they think if you have money, you can do what you want,&rdquo; she said. She indicated that the meeting conducted by Nkomo and Mvundura was one way of ensuring that there was stability and harmony in the party, adding that there was a document signed by warring parties during the meeting. While the newly-elected executive expected Mujuru to endorse them, she said she was still waiting for the document in question. &ldquo;Our party wants inclusivity, women&rsquo;s quota, disabled people to be included and the youths to be there and in all these, maybe we were missing one or two. &ldquo;But this time, as we are meeting to solve it forever, we must make sure we cover all those areas we had been missing. So I am yet to hear from them, they are the ones who signed the document, they agreed so I am yet to hear from them.&rdquo;