HARARE&nbsp; - Harare Sports Club prop Denford Mutamangira is livid after receiving the first red card of his long career during Saturday&rsquo;s home match against Mutare Sports Club (MSC). Sportivo handed MSC their first defeat of the 2017 Intercity Rugby League season when they ran in eight tries in the 51-3 victory. However, the Red Lions big win was soiled by Mutamangira&rsquo;s sending off towards the buzzer after he was involved in an altercation with MSC&rsquo;s Casper Bandi. The 33-year-old loosehead prop, who is also the Sables captain, described his red card as a &ldquo;moment of madness&rdquo;.&nbsp; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s actually my first red card in my career which is something unusual but it happens in games and it&rsquo;s just a moment of I would say madness, it was over exaggerated but otherwise there was really nothing in it,&rdquo; said the prop, who made his Sportivo debut way back in 2004. &ldquo;It happens and obviously it&rsquo;s not something you would like to receive a red card.&rdquo; Mutamangira said they were well-prepared for the previously undefeated MSC, who had been on a five-game winning run since the season started.&nbsp; &ldquo;We always knew it was going to be like that and the way it was going to disrupt our play is something we were aware of,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;First half was a bit scrappy but second half we came together and we got our patterns right and we managed to score more points.&rdquo; Mutamangira is one of the most experienced players in the domestic game having been part of the Red Lions set up for over a decade. The only interruption of his love affair with Sportivo was when in 2013, he moved to Scotland to join Ayr Rugby Club and won the Premiership title in his first season. In the 2013/2014, he was part of the backup squad for Glasgow Warriors where he played in their preseason friendly and was named as part of the 38-man squad for the Heineken Cup that season. On the international front, the former Churchill Boys High student was part of the Sables squad that won the Africa Cup three years ago. He was elevated to be captain of the national team in June 2015 to succeed Daniel Hondo, who is now his coach at Sportivo. Mutamangira was also on the radar of South African side Durban Sharks ahead of the 2015 Currie Cup and was scheduled to play for them against Xerox Golden Lions but was side-lined with a knee injury.