HARARE&nbsp; &ndash; Sables lock Witness Mandizha paid tribute to the late musician and war veteran Dick Chingaira aka Cde Chinx during Zimbabwe&rsquo;s Rugby Afrique Gold Cup victory over Senegal in Dakar last Saturday. Cde Chinx passed away on June 17 after a long battle with cancer and was buried in Harare last Friday, a day before the Sables match. His death created heated debate with many Zimbabweans urging President Robert Mugabe to declare him a national hero. However, in the end, Cde Chinx was only conferred with the liberation war hero status which was a big disappointment to many. Mandizha in his own way managed to remember the musician in his own way by running out for the Sables at the Iba Mar Diop Stadium in Dakar strapped with wrist bands emblazoned: &ldquo;R.I.P Chinx&rdquo;. The number five lock was able to help the Sables rally from behind at the halftime break to emerge with a crucial 16-28 win that gave the side a good start in their quest to reach the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. &ldquo;Cde Chinx was my hero. His music inspired and motivated a lot of people during the liberation struggle,&rdquo; the College Rovers player told the Daily News from Durban, South Africa. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just a fan of his music and my favourite track from him is Vanhu Vese Vemu Africa.&rdquo; Turning to the Sables&rsquo; win over the West Africans, Mandizha feels there is still some more work to be done ahead of the forthcoming matches. &ldquo;Obviously, I&rsquo;m happy that we won away from home even though it wasn&rsquo;t our best performance,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;There is still a lot of room for improvement.&rdquo; Zimbabwe is on the road again for their next game in the Gold Cup away to Namibia in Windhoek on July 15. The Sables have played second fiddle to the Welwitschias in recent years with Cyprian Mandenge&rsquo;s side losing heavily in their past two visits to Windhoek. In 2015, Zimbabwe was sent to the cleaners in a lopsided 80-6 defeat at the Hage Geingob Rugby Stadium. Last year, the Welwitschias cantered to another 60-22 win as the Sables finished their 2016 Africa Cup campaign without a win. However, with the newly-found confidence following the victory over Senegal last weekend, Mandizha is looking forward to an upset. &ldquo;I believe we can beat Namibia. We just need to believe, put in the hard work and gel as a team,&rdquo; he said.