BULAWAYO &ndash; South Africa-based music promoter Phakama Nkomo has scored a first in bringing musicians from different regions to recording music as part of the initiative to promote unity and togetherness. The Underground Entertainment music promoter better known as PKay in music circles told the Daily News yesterday that his first project was this month end. &ldquo;Our first project is Gift Amuli from Gweru and Allen Ndoda from Plumtree, where they are looking at having them collaborate on an album which is going to be launched in Johannesburg and here as well,&rdquo; PKay said. &ldquo;They are going to start recording on June 28. It is going to be recorded in Harare. But we are still finalising, we may choose to record at Amuli&rsquo;s studio in Gweru. We have targeted the release of the album at least around August,&rdquo; he said. Soon after release, PKay said he was going to organise a national tour for the two musicians as part of promoting the album. The promoter who has worked with many prominent artistes from South Africa and some from this region said the new collaborative project will see the two musicians singing together both in Ndebele and Shona. He said he was driven by the wish to see musicians being exemplary in fostering unity among people. &ldquo;Personaly, sometimes I feel that we are divided so the project is an attempt to unite people, the fans, the artistes themselves as you know that Allen Ndoda is from the Ndebele speaking side while Amuli is from the Shona speaking side, that&rsquo;s what we want as a people.&rdquo; PKay said this was the beginning of a big project that would see many musicians upcoming and prominent being engaged to ensure the spirit of togetherness spread. &ldquo;Next in line we are targeting Clement Magwaza and Peter Moyo, so far I have begun negotiations with Magwaza and very soon I will be reaching out to Peter, with the hope that they can record not a single but a full album. &ldquo;I sponsor everything so the duty of artistes is to write songs and go into the studio.&rdquo; He also said he was not only targeting the fast paced Sungura music, but had intentions of capturing the dancehall music genre on the same project. PKay whose Underground Entertainment company founded in 2006 is registered in South Africa also revealed that he was finalising registering the company back home.