HARARE &ndash; Zimbabwe off-spinner Wellington Masakadza was recalled for the One Day International series against Sri Lanka but then suffered an ankle injury in training ahead of tomorrow&rsquo;s first encounter in Galle. The tourists, who are also coming in from limited overs series in Scotland and Netherlands, are scheduled to play a once-off Test against Sri Lanka. Zimbabwe convenor of selectors Tatenda Taibu, who is currently in England, will be in the Asian country ahead of tomorrow&rsquo;s opening match said the left-arm spinner Masakadza comes in the squad to replace Solomon Mire, who was part of the squad in Europe. Leg-spinner Natsai Mshangwe, wicket-keeper batsman Regis Chakabva and seamers Carl Mumba and Nathan Waller will travel to Sri Lanka later on to join the Test squad. The former Zimbabwe captain hopes that his knowledge and experience of the Asian conditions as a player together with that of the technical team headed by another ex-national team captain Heath Streak and his lieutenants in former South African greats Makhaya Ntini (bowling) and Lance Klussener (batting) will come in handy during the tour. &ldquo;Well everyone knows that Sri Lanka is particularly tough when they are playing at home. They don&rsquo;t have a lot of brilliant play but they have got a good team collectively and can be very dangerous when they are playing at home,&rdquo; Taibu told the Daily News. &ldquo;We are all aware of that and I&rsquo;m sure the guys will be looking forward to that ...we selected (team for this series) knowing the conditions already having played there. &ldquo;Streak and the coaching all know the conditions so it was quite easy to then work out a team around that...we have got Waller, Mumba and Wellington coming in and a few guys going. Wellington is however, now doubtful after spraining his ankle.&rdquo; Taibu said the team is still work in progress following their tour of Europe where they managed a draw against Scotland and a series win over Netherlands. &ldquo;It was obviously a little disappointing that we didn&rsquo;t win all the matches but the good thing about the Netherlands series is that we won the series,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We lost the one where we were just trying out the other players to give them game time but even though it wasn&rsquo;t a full strength side we were backing them to pull out a win. &ldquo;The target is still the same, it&rsquo;s Qualifiers and after Qualifiers it&rsquo;s then the World Cup which we will relook at so we at least have got a taste of how the Scotland and Netherlands as well so that helps for the Qualifiers.&rdquo;