HARARE - Warriors caretaker coach Norman Mapeza and his team got off to a flying start with an impressive 3-0 crushing of Liberia&rsquo;s Lone Stars yesterday to put their qualification for the 2019 African Cup of Nations (Afcon) firmly on track. Yesterday&rsquo;s win at the National Sports Stadium was a massive boost for both Mapeza and the Warriors as their campaign had been overshadowed by a row over the availability of Khama Billiat and threats of player mutiny in solidarity with players who were axed from the squad over disciplinary issues. Billiat was caught in a country-versus-club row when Mamelodi Sundowns were reluctant to release him for assessment by the Warriors medical team following his injury which made him unavailable for yesterday&rsquo;s match at the National Sports Stadium. On the other hand, Mapeza had to justify his decision not to call Matthew Rusike, former skipper Willard Katsande, Cuthbert Malajila and Nyasha Mushekwi &ndash; who were accused of leading a boycott of a sending off dinner on the eve of their departure for Afcon finals in Gabon. &ldquo;I think after some years this was our first qualifying game playing at home and I think we took advantage of that. &ldquo;I think we have built a strong foundation going forward and the most important thing now is to be consistent, let&rsquo;s try and keep this team as it is. &ldquo;But obviously I am just an assistant and maybe in the next match there will be a new coach but my advice to whoever will take the place is to keep this team and probably include one or two guys who were not available,&rdquo; an ecstatic Mapeza said. &ldquo;I think it&rsquo;s a good team with a mixture of experienced and young players. I think it&rsquo;s good for the country.&nbsp;&nbsp; &ldquo;It was a good game. I think we were perfect in almost every department. We were compact in midfield and I think upfront we were just clinical. I can only congratulate the boys for a job well done today. &ldquo;I also want to salute that fans, they came in large numbers, they gave us maximum support. I think that&rsquo;s what we needed as a team going forward,&rdquo; added Mapeza. The Warriors have no substantive coach after Zifa decided not to renew former coach&rsquo;s Kalisto Pasuwa&rsquo;s contract after a disastrous campaign at the Gabon finals early this year. Mapeza is working on a part-time basis as he has a permanent job at the Zvishavane-based premiership side, FC Platinum. Zifa president Philip Chiyangwa has said by the time the Warriors resume their Afcon campaign in March next year, they would have appointed a substantive coach. The Warriors would resume their campaign with an away match to Congo Brazzaville in March and would be inactive in between due to World Cup qualifiers.