BULAWAYO - Gilmore Tee Moyo the host and producer of Thatha Wena, a new PanAfrican conversational television show is set to travel to the US as one of the 60 young Zimbabweans that were selected to be part of the Mandela Washington Fellowship &mdash; Young African Leaders Initiative (Yali). Gilmore, who is known for his intensive work in the fashion industry where he works in grooming designers, linking them to local and international markets, is one of the lucky individuals who were selected for the programme. &ldquo;It is such an honour to be one of the selected individuals who will represent Zimbabwe and Africa at large. Out of 2 680 plus individuals that applied from Zimbabwe, the initiative saw it fit for me to be one of the voices that should be heard from Zimbabwe, this is extremely humbling. I look forward to sharing my experience, being the proud Zimbabwean I am and also learning from other people,&rdquo; said Gilmore Tee. &ldquo;One of the things I am looking forward to doing, is coming back and further collaborate with local stakeholders in finding solutions that are relevant to us as a people, especially in the fashion and creative industries. &ldquo;I hope this experience will benefit a lot of young people from Zimbabwe that might not have gotten the opportunity to be directly involved in the Mandela Washington Fellowship.&rdquo; From over 2 680 applications from Zimbabwe, the TV personality&rsquo;s works in the creative industries sailed through to being selected in the final 60 after interviews and major consideration by the US State Department. Yali was launched in 2010 to recognise and support the critical and increasing role of African youth in strengthening democratic institutions, spurring economic growth, and enhancing peace and security in Africa. The programme has three components to it with one being the Mandela Washington Fellowship which began in 2014 and is a flagship programme of the Yali which empowers young Africans through academic coursework, leadership training and networking. The fellowship includes academic and leadership institutes at a US university or college, a summit, an optional US-based professional development experience, and Africa-based support following the conclusion of the institutes. From 2014 &ndash; 2016, nearly 2 000 Mandela Washington Fellows participated in the fellowship, with an additional 1 000 joining this year. The 27-year-old will be jetting off to the US this week to join other fellow Africans in collaborating and sharing best practices that can positively benefit the continent.