HARARE &ndash; With fans continuing to shun local Premier Soccer League (PSL) matches at an alarming rate, Dynamos believe that hosting evening matches remains a viable option to increase their cash flow. The Glamour Boys host Ngezi Platinum Stars this evening at the National Sports Stadium at 7pm. DeMbare organising secretary Graham Mafoko says they are attracting more fans for all the matches they have hosted at night and the trend is likely to continue this evening against the log leaders. &ldquo;The thing is we have done our cost and benefit analysis and we realised that during our midweek matches people attending evening matches are better than when we play in the afternoon,&rdquo; Mafoko told the Daily News. &ldquo;When we played How Mine the other time in the afternoon only 2 300 people attended and when we played Black Rhinos in the evening we had about 4 100 fans who paid to watch that particular tie while the one against Harare City we were not at home. &ldquo;So that alone means more people are coming to attend evening games. We are actually going to continue have evening matches and we are urging our fans to get used to that.&rdquo; In regards to the floodlights bill, Mafoko said: &ldquo;There is not much of a difference really because we will only pay an extra $200. So it makes a lot of sense to have our matches played in the evening.&rdquo; Besides the night kick-offs, Mafoko said they will explore other avenues to increase attendances for their home matches. &ldquo;You find there are a lot of things that stop people from attending midweek matches so we have to be more proactive to try and bring people to the stadium,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are also looking for ways to see how best we can ensure our numbers increase.&rdquo; After a difficult start to the 2017 season, DeMbare host Ngezi Platinum this evening hoping to continue with their newly-found winning form. Lloyd Mutasa&rsquo;s side has registered three wins on the trot. The Glamour Boys were also boosted after PSL disciplinary committee awarded them three points from their abandoned match against Highlanders last month. The Glamour Boys are set to welcome back Cameroonian striker Christian Ntouba and Masimba Mambare, who missed their last trip to Tsholotsho with injuries. Ngezi on the other hand are desperate to bounce back to winning ways after a shock draw to Chapungu at home in their last league match. Fixtures: Today: Bantu Rovers v Tsholotsho (Luveve, 1pm), How Mine v Yadah (Luveve, 3pm), Dynamos v Ngezi Platinum (National Sports Stadium, 7pm)