HARARE - Ngoma Nehosho, which hosted Grammy Award-winning British soul singer Joss Stone at 7 Arts Theatre in Harare at the beginning of this month, has come up with a new music festival set for October. Director of Ngoma Nehosho Music Festival, Walter Wanyanya has promised a line-up full of world-class performers from all genres. &ldquo;This is an annual event. It is the culmination of Ngoma Nehosho live sessions which we hold throughout the year, the last of which was the one featuring Joss Stone. This should give you an idea of the calibre of artistes we have access to,&rdquo; Wanyanya told the Daily News. The director added that the line-up of performers was almost complete. &ldquo;We have a line-up already save for one or two international acts whose availability I am currently finalising,&rdquo; he said. The Ngoma Nehosho Music Festival is coming on stream at a time when similar events are facing viability challenges. Zimbabwe&rsquo;s biggest arts festival &mdash; the Harare International Festival of Arts (Hifa) &mdash; bounced back this year after postponing its 2016 edition. In a related development, there will not be a 2018 edition of the annual Miombo Magic Music Festival which has been held consistently since 2011 in Christon Bank due to the crippling economic situation. But Wanyanya appears undaunted by the challenges that face his imminent event. &ldquo;Anything that is worthy has an element of fear in it but one has to rise above that fear and realise that this is where the magic happens. &ldquo;We have been working a lot with festivals in the region so that we learn more about putting up a well-organised festival because we really do not want to reinvent the wheel but we want to customise it for the Zimbabwean market and environment,&rdquo; he said. Since inception in 2014, Ngoma NeHosho has organised concerts featuring artistes such as South African Legend Hugh Masekela, local legend Oliver Mtukudzi, Victor Kunonga, Alexio Kawara, Tariro NeGitare and Mokoomba to mention a few. Wanyanya told the Daily News that his organisation is determined to come up with unique events. &ldquo;Ngoma Nehosho is designed to bring to Zimbabwean audiences a different kind of concert experience to what they are used to and to engage with all audiences,&rdquo; he said.