HARARE - Dennis&nbsp;Dauda says he is leaving CAPS United &ldquo;a happy man&rdquo; after he was transfer-listed by the Green Machine. He was signed by Yadah FC yesterday. The defending Castle Lager Premiership champions lost 2-0 to Yadah at Morris Depot and the club accused Dauda of match-fixing in the aftermath. A few hours before kick-off, Dauda had posted a message on social media praising Yadah proprietor Walter Magaya.&nbsp; The former ZPC Kariba defender yesterday signed for the newly-promoted side after the two teams agreed a fee of $30 000. &ldquo;I have no hard feelings at all. I am leaving a happy man. These things happen in football. The only thing that baffles me is the talk of me fixing the game when we were beaten clean and fair,&rdquo; Dauda told the Daily News. &ldquo;Surely, can we start talk of match-fixing at this stage. It&rsquo;s very strange that there are some people who saw it that way. &ldquo;I believe I served CAPS United with distinction during my time there and I am very grateful to them for making me a champion.&rdquo; The defender added: &ldquo;I was never summoned for a hearing to explain my post on Facebook because people will always have their own interpretations but it was my post and I felt I was the best person to explain it. &ldquo;I was transfer listed and there was very little I could have done. I earn a living through playing football. So I needed to move on and I am now a Yadah player. I actually trained with Yadah today. &ldquo;It is difficult to keep on playing for nothing. I am a family man and it was really difficult for me. My focus is now at Yadah and I am working at helping my new team do well in the league.&rdquo; Yadah coach Jairos Tapera was excited with the signing of Dauda saying it gives his team more options. &ldquo;Yes, we have signed him (Dauda). He is now our player and he has since started training with us immediately,&rdquo; Tapera said. &ldquo;You cannot dispute that he is a quality player. I worked with him when he was still young in Kwekwe and I know what he is capable of doing. &ldquo;He is coming with a lot of experience; he has been playing in the Champions League so to us it&rsquo;s an added advantage. &ldquo;We are quite excited to have him in our ranks and I hope the youngsters will be able to learn one or things from him going forward.&rdquo;