HARARE - CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe yesterday sensationally hinted at quitting the Green Machine after the defeat to Yadah FC in a Castle Lager Premiership match. Chitembwe, who last week vented his frustration at his players, following a chastening 4-2 defeat to Libyan side Al Ahli Tripoli in an African Champions League tie in Tunisia, revealed that he could relinquish his post if results do not improve. Second half goals from Jimmy Dzingai and Munyaradzi Chiwara were all Yadah needed to end a four-game winless streak while condemning Makepekepe to their second defeat of the season. The reigning Zimbabwe champions now find themselves in the bottom four of the log with 13 points from nine matches. &ldquo;Naturally, it&rsquo;s disappointing to lose. I know the expectations of the team; I know the expectations of the players. They gave their all but unfortunately it was never meant to be,&rdquo; a dejected Chitembwe said after the match. &ldquo;At the end of the day, I think it&rsquo;s about the coach. When you are a coach and you have this kind of responsibility you need to look into yourself critically. I think I need to look at myself (and) my position critically. &ldquo;I think this is a great club and they deserve more, they deserve better. Sometimes you feel if you are not doing what the club deserves to some extent you feel like you are not doing what you are supposed to be doing. &ldquo;So I also think it&rsquo;s important maybe there is someone out there who can take the team further. And I am very, very happy with the way these boys have gone about their business but unfortunately, it was never meant to be our day. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s very important as someone who is responsible to also look at yourself critically and you analyse on things that you are supposed to do and the expectations out there and when your effort is not matching the expectations then there is need for you to also review position.&rdquo; Further pressed if he is to blame for the team&rsquo;s poor results Chitembwe said: &ldquo;No one is really to blame but like I said it&rsquo;s the responsibility of the coach to make sure you produce the results expected of the team, so at the end of the day it&rsquo;s my responsibility to make sure the team performs the way it should be performing. &ldquo;And like I have always said, I have had a great group of players. This group is fantastic. They have done a lot of very good things for the football club. They have done a lot of good things themselves. &ldquo;Playing in the Champions League is no mean achievement so like I said when things are not moving the way they are supposed to be moving as someone who is responsible you also need to look at your situation and see what&rsquo;s best.&rdquo; After dominating the first half, Yadah finally got the breakthrough just two minutes after the break when Dzingai bundled the ball home from a corner kick with the CAPS defence failing to clear. Chiwara ensured maximum points for the home side on 66 minutes when he connected with a cross from Denzel Savanhu.