HARARE - Rising female karateka Tishana Sekerani is grateful to the sponsorship the Zimbabwe Karate Union (ZKU) is getting from Africabet which has helped turn around her life. Sekerani recently returned from Mozambique where she was part of the ZKU team which scooped 13 medals at the AUSC Region 5 Games. The 14-year-old won a gold medal in the U14-15 (U47kg) category. Sekerani is one of the beneficiaries of the ZKU education scholarship which is bankrolled by Africabet. At some point, the karateka from Budiro, Harare had to drop out of school since her mother, who is a single parent, could not afford the tuition fees. However, at the moment she is enrolled at Elrol College where she&rsquo;s doing her Form 2 studies courtesy of the ZKU grant. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s been very difficult for my mother to fend for me and my siblings. She&rsquo;s a single parent but as a devout Christian she kept having faith; we all did,&rdquo; Sekerani told the Daily News. &ldquo;Through God&rsquo;s miraculous ways, Africabet came calling and I will forever be grateful for their kind gesture. &ldquo;I understand there are a lot of people in my situation, some with even more deserving cases than me. &ldquo;My only prayer will be for God to continue guiding the sponsor as well as to give me the gift of intelligence so that I continue to make them proud both in sport and in school.&rdquo; Africabet representative Ransome Chimonyo said the bookmaker has always valued their community work. &ldquo;We have always been a community-centred people. We take our corporate social responsibility seriously and it&rsquo;s something that we do willingly,&rdquo; Chimonyo said. &ldquo;It is our responsibility as a responsible organisation to be taking care of disadvantaged but talented people within our community. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s (Sekerani) one of the many people that we assist on a day to day basis, so we are proud to be associated with such people and to be helping them. It is our desire and hope to see such kids improve, get exposure and ultimately make it in life.&rdquo; Chimonyo said the company is committed to funding Sekerani&rsquo;s education as long a she manages to balance schoolwork and sport. &ldquo;Firstly, we have managed to pay her school fees and managed to keep her in school,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We all know that education is important for any athlete and any person in life so we want her to be educated. &ldquo;Secondly, we are also sponsoring her in her karate activities like the recent trip to Mozambique. &ldquo;We sponsored her together with other athletes so we are sponsoring her education side and also taking care of her extra-curricular activities.&rdquo;