HARARE - Rising Zimbabwean bantamweight boxer Tinashe &ldquo;Chairman&rdquo; Madziwane says he is ready to follow in the footsteps of dethroned World Boxing Council (WBC) silver welterweight champion Charles Manyuchi as he prepares for his first international title fight. Madziwane will square up against Hashimu Zuberi of Tanzania for a unification bout for the vacant World Boxing Organisation (WBO), World Boxing Confederation (WBC) and African Boxing Union (ABU) belts during the Heroes holiday at the City Sports Centre on August 14. The three-time Zimbabwe bantamweight champion said this could be the beginning of a journey to fulfil his dream to become a world champion. &ldquo;This is the opportunity that I have been waiting for to take my career to the next level. It gives me an opportunity to win some silverware and I can&rsquo;t afford to let this chance slip away,&rdquo; Madziwane told the Daily News. &ldquo;I feel I&rsquo;m in great shape and will continue to prepare for the fight. I have been touring some African countries recently and I am sure the exposure I got from those bouts will be useful when I go into the ring. &ldquo;I want to promise my fans that I am going to win the belt. I will not let it go to Tanzania. For now, I will have to keep on working hard just like what I have been doing all along. &ldquo;This could be the beginning of more good things to come in my career and I really need to stay focused. I wish to emulate Manyuchi, I have learnt a lot from him. And I think I am ready to follow in his footsteps.&rdquo;&nbsp; Announcing the title fight, Delta Force Boxing Academy director Clyde Musonda said: &ldquo;We find it fit to collaborate with other boxing promoters from different countries to have a tournament here in Zimbabwe. So we are working closely with No Pain No Gain Boxing Promotions of Malawi because we have a partnership. &ldquo;I believe this is the right way to go if we are to revive boxing in this country. We are hoping to revive boxing through tournaments. &ldquo;Manyuchi is the only boxer known now but he is contracted in Zambia and we are saying we need to give Zimbabwean-based boxers a chance.&rdquo; Tournament co-coordinator Nyasha Mandeya said they are looking at raising at least $146 000 to ensure they have a successful event.&nbsp; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an opportunity we are giving to the youths. We are encouraged by the exploits of Charles Manyuchi in recent years and we hope the youngsters will follow in his footsteps,&rdquo; said Mandeya. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s just the beginning of more good things to come, there are a lot of more boxing stuff in the pipeline. We are looking at ways to mobilise funds for a successful tournament.&rdquo; Also fighting on the undercard will be female boxers Anisha Bashir of Malawi and Gifty Amanua Ankrah of Ghana while Zimbabwe&rsquo;s Silas Mandeya will fight Mikka Shonena of Namibia. Fight card: Tinashe Madziwane v Hashimu Zuberi (Bantamweight title), Anisha Bashir v Gifty Amanua Ankrah (Welterweight title), Silas Mandeya v Mikka Shonena (Welterweight), Monalisa Sibanda v Asha Ngendere (Welterweight), Israel Kamkwamba v Edward Kakembo (Featherweight), Patience Mastara v Ellen Simwaka, Nicola Mutonhora v Gomotsang Gaasite (Super Welterweight), Philip Musariri v Gabriel Achieng (Super lightweight), Tinashe Mutodza v Bernard Mwango (Super bantamweight), Samson Masiyambumbi v Ripfumelo Chikwambane (Lightweight), Collen Mavhundutse v Trevor Mpofu (Heavyweight)