HARARE &ndash; With the Premier Soccer League (PSL) dithering on the decision regarding the abandoned Castle Lager Premiership tie between Dynamos and Chapungu last Sunday, the Air Force of Zimbabwe want fair play to prevail. The match was stopped in the 56th minute after the Chapungu goalkeeper Talbert Shumba crashed against the upright with the entire goalpost collapsing. Efforts to have the goalpost welded back failed resulting in the match commissioner calling off the game with DeMbare leading 0-4. Chapungu chief executive officer Innocent Chiganze feels there is need to uphold the rules and regulations of the game. &ldquo;As Chapungu Football Club, we are a law-abiding team and we stand guided by the rules and regulations of the PSL, Zifa, Caf as well as Fifa,&rdquo; Chiganze. &ldquo;It was a very unfortunate way of ending the match but we are willing to continue but in the spirit of fair play. We owe it to the fans, who had come to watch the match, we believe they need to feel the value for their money. &ldquo;We will welcome any decision that will be passed by football authorities but at the end of the end of the day, I&rsquo;m sure whatever the decision that they make will be for the good of our game. &ldquo;Remember this is our game and we want the best out of it. We need a holistic approach to this issue. I think what is important is to do justice so that we will not have similar issues in the future. &ldquo;This will be precedence in what we are going to do in the future for similar cases. &ldquo;I think it needs a stakeholders&rsquo; approach on how the fans can best be handled because honestly speaking they paid to watch 90 minutes. It is important to consider that as well.&rdquo; Chingaze added: &ldquo;We are not very worried about the result but to see justice. We can only talk of the result after 90 minutes and it&rsquo;s difficult to say it could have ended like that because remember this is a game of football and anything is possible. &ldquo;You cannot deny that we could have proceeded to score four goals or even five. We can only know all of this after 90 minutes and we cannot determine the result before it has ended. We think our fans deserve better through fair play. &ldquo;For us really, it&rsquo;s not the issue of scoring but delivering to the people who had come to play and watch this match. Result is a bonus but like I said football is one unpredictable game and we feel the result can only be known after the 90 minutes has ended.&rdquo; In 2005, Real Madrid and Real Sociedad had to play the remaining seven minutes of their La Liga game on a different day after the initial match was abandoned because of a bomb scare at the Stantiago Bernabeu. Representatives of Madrid and Real Sociedad, agreed at a meeting at the Spanish Football Federation to play the remainder of the match. Ticket holders from the original match were allowed to watch the remaining seven minutes of play, including four minutes of injury-time.