HARARE &ndash; United Kingdom (UK)-based Zimbabwean singer Farhaan &ldquo;Kazz&rdquo; Khan&nbsp;has set his sight on the African market after collaborating with artistes from Zambia and Malawi on the remix of his track Kudana. The Masvingo-born artiste, better known as Mr Boomslang, worked with Zambian artiste Tbwoy as well as UK-based Bucci and Hazel Mak&mdash; originally from Malawi. Kazz, who is part of the duo &mdash; Bkay and Kazz together with his brother Seiraj &ldquo;Bkay&rdquo; Khan, told the Daily News on Sunday that he decided to create a remix targeting the continent after being encouraged by the song&rsquo;s success in several countries. &ldquo;Kudana has got a lot of attention since the release of the first version, quite a few artists got in touch with me to do a remix,&rdquo; he said, adding that project has blossomed beyond the original intention. &ldquo;Naturally, I was delighted that other artistes wanted to jump on. I asked the artistes to send through their verses and then I decided it was definitely worth doing two versions, one UK remix and one African one.&rdquo; The song, which was originally released early this year, with Shona and English lyrics, now has a Nyasaland mix anchored on Chichewa lyrics. &ldquo;Each artiste has brought a whole new flavour to the track. The energy, the flow and sound will make fans go crazy,&rdquo; Kazz said. Tbwoy, who had one of the hottest tracks in Zambia last year titled Miss you that featured Chef, also recently collaborated with African star Roberto on a track called Call Me. His impressive list of songs also includes Sibakudya Mahala, Aditalisa and the title track of his latest album Dweet. Bucci, on the other hand, is a talented and versatile artiste &mdash; a singer, songwriter, dancer and producer while Hazel, the only female artiste, who contributed to the remix, is equally good. Her song Ting Go is on rotation in many African nations. Kazz, who is currently working with Nutty O, Chengeto Brown and Bailey Brown on separate projects, is also working on a new single titled Walking with you. The Masvingo-born artiste, who has four albums under his belt, has attributed the purple patch he is now on to his single Kudana that opened new chapters for him in Zimbabwe and in the UK. &ldquo;Kudana has definitely opened up a few doors for me&rdquo; he said. Thanks to the hit, he got the chance, with his brother Bkay, to share the stage with top stars like Neyo, Omarion, Sisqo, Wayne Wonder, among other many internationally-acclaimed stars.