HARARE - Zimbabwe continue with their tour of Europe as they take on hosts Netherlands in the first match of the three One Day International series at Amstelveen this morning. Heath Streak&rsquo;s side salvaged a series draw against Scotland on Sunday courtesy of a Graeme Cremer five-for and batsman Sikandar Raza&rsquo;s unbeaten 58 runs as they registered a six-wicket victory. Zimbabwe had lost the first ODI to Scotland by 26 runs Duckworth-Lewis method under controversial circumstances when on song batsman Malcolm Waller was given out on 92 although replays showed that the fielder at deep midwicket boundary had touched the boundary before holding on to the catch. &ldquo;...Some much needed game time for us and definitely that catch off Waller gave us even more motivation to win,&rdquo; Cremer told the Daily News from the Netherlands yesterday. &ldquo;It was good to see our guys play closer to our potential in the second game, we just need to carry this momentum against Netherlands and then onto Sri Lanka. &ldquo;I had a look at the pitch earlier, it looks very similar to the pitch we played on in Scotland, so not many strategic changes and as for the team I don&rsquo;t think it will change much from the last game. &ldquo;We want to make sure we try by all means to have our best 11 on the park and make sure everyone knows their role by the time we get to Sri Lanka.&rdquo; The second and third ODIs are scheduled for Thursday and Saturday and then Zimbabwe will head to Sri Lanka for a series comprising five ODIs and a Test match. The Zimbabwe captain said the trip to Scotland was politically free in view of the tension between Zimbabwe and England which has made it impossible for the two former colonies to stage bilateral tours since 2003. &ldquo;To be honest they were very welcoming (Scots) they looked after us well, so no strain whatsoever,&rdquo; Cremer said. Zimbabwe squad: Ryan Burl, Sikandar Raza Butt, Chamunorwa Chibhabha, Graeme Cremer (captain), Craig Ervine, Hamilton Masakadza, Solomon Mire, Peter Joseph Moor, Christopher Mpofu, Tarisai Musakanda, Richard Ngarava, Donald Tiripano, Malcolm Waller, Sean Williams.