HARARE - Actor Martin Rinoona and model Marvin Mukuyu, who both have hearing impairments, are on course to become the first ever deaf artistes in Zimbabwe to produce a music album. The two artistes are determined to demonstrate that music is much more than the fusion of words and sound. &ldquo;We are hoping that the album will be out before end of July and it is going to be the first music album done by the deaf in this country. &ldquo;After production we will post our videos on social media for people to easily access them and learn about our community,&rdquo; Rinoona told the Daily News on Sunday. Rinoona, who plays the role of Solomon in a ZBC-TV drama series called Muzita Rababa, which also features musicians Ammara Brown and Mudiwa Hood, added that the music album, titled Let There Be Light will be in video format with subtitles to help interpret sign language and other expressions. &ldquo;It is going to be a cocktail of choreography, sign and dance fused with sound. We realised that music is a universal language and people will be able to relate with our experiences across the world,&rdquo; he said. In addition to the title track, songs on the forthcoming album include Give it a try, Equality, My Dream and Beautiful Zimbabwe&nbsp; which are being produced at M and M studios at Marvin and Martin&rsquo;s Hub. &ldquo;We are saying let there be light because for the deaf community if feels like we are in the dark when it comes to all the important life issues. We do not get information about legal, health and even politics, our inclusion is very limited and this album is meant to speak out about all that,&rdquo; the popular actor explained. For Mukuyu, the Mr Deaf Zimbabwe 2013 winner, who has done commercial modelling for big brands such as Econet and Jet Stores, the forthcoming album should help put the spotlight on issues affecting the deaf community in Zimbabwe. &ldquo;We are fighting for the up-lifting of the deaf community and want people to know that we are equal despite our impairments. The most influential positions are held by the hearing people but we are determined to change that,&rdquo; he said. The Sadc Fashion Week Inspirational Model Ambassador is also eager to help deaf models get more recognition. &ldquo;There is need for training of deaf models so that they can also begin to be noticed in the industry. There is great potential in the deaf community for world-class modelling,&rdquo; Mukuyu said.