HARARE - Jamaican artistes have been increasingly flocking to Harare especially from 2009 when the country adopted the multi-currency system. In August alone, Harare is going to host two Jamaican international reggae icons in the form of Busy Signal and Beenie Man on August 5 and 26 respectively. The former will be showcasing at Glamis Arena courtesy of Y2K Promotions while the later at Harare International Conference Centre (HICC) thanks to 2 Kings Entertainment. In April, Turbulence made his return to Harare after his maiden performance in 2013 while in last week another Jamaican musician inform of Antony B showcased at Glamis Arena in the capital. Some of the Jamaican artistes who performed in Harare so far since 2009 include Fantam Moja, Mr Vegas, Capleton, Sean Kingstone, Elephant Man, Luciano, Sizzla, Charlie Black, Chris Martin, Beenie Man, Turbulence, Morgan Heritage and Mavado among others. Local dancehall artistes are of the notion that the coming of Jamaicans artistes in Zimbabwe is a major stride in marketing the country to the outside world and also to popularise the dancehall genre in Zimbabwe. Simbarashe Johnson Maphosa popularly known as Templeman in the music industry said Jamaican artistes should come in numbers because local artistes benefited from them. &ldquo;Jamaicans&rsquo; concerts in Zimbabwe are usually attended by fans not less than 10 000, this gives us the opportunity to showcase and market ourselves even to local fans as upcoming dancehall artistes. &ldquo;When we organise shows of only local artistes, the number of fans attending will be much less hence we capitalise on Jamaican concerts,&rdquo; said Templeman. In a previous interview with the Daily News, the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe director Elvas Mari said international artistes are welcome in Zimbabwe. &ldquo;Zimbabwe is benefitting from Jamaican artistes, economically and culturally. When a popular Jamaican artiste is in the country, it boosts business from a street vendor to hotels. People will get employment, printing and pasting posters and even in security sector,&rdquo; said Mari then. &ldquo;We welcome all artistes from all corners of the world, not only Jamaicans but even from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). If we trace our sungura origins we find out that it had originated from rhumba genre, so it is a benefit.&rdquo;&nbsp;&nbsp;