HARARE - Intercity Rugby League log leaders Old Georgians thumped Highlanders 94-0 at Police Grounds in Harare during last weekend&rsquo;s action which was full of high-scoring matches. The huge win by OGs saw them open a five-point gap over second-placed Mutare Sports Club, who bounced back to winning ways with a 19-12 victory over Mat Warriors in Manicaland. Old Hararians were also in ruthless form as they dispatched Bulldogs 84-14 at Police Grounds. Police Defenders defeated fellow Harare side Old Johannians 23-15 at the same venue. OGs are yet to taste defeat after seven rounds of matches and have managed to collect six bonus points in the process while Mutare have won six of their seven outings losing only once to sit in second place with 29 points. In third place is OH with 21 points followed by Police Defenders on fourth with 20 points while Mat Warriors (18), Old Miltonians (16) and Gweru Sports Club (7) complete the top seven. The bottom three comprises Highlanders (5), Bulldogs (5) and Old Johannians with a single point from five matches. OGs coach Grant Mitchell is happy with the amount of game time gained in the league so far. &ldquo;The league has been great this year from the perspective of game time. The more matches we play, the greater the opportunity of becoming better,&rdquo; Mitchell said. &ldquo;With regular game time comes a more structured and invested approach to preparation and that is where the significant gains are made.&rdquo; On the big win over Bulldogs, Mitchell said: &ldquo;We had set our internal targets and allowed the scoreboard to run itself. We were fortunate enough to give a large number of fringe players the opportunity for more first team game time and three new players got a chance to represent Old Georgians for their first time.&rdquo; Kyle Mullin, Deanne Makoni and Dumi Sithole were all handed their Dragons&rsquo; debuts from the bench against the Bulawayo-based side. &ldquo;There will always be hunger within the OGs squad and that is bred intrinsically. It is invaluable and often cannot be coached,&rdquo; Mitchell said. &ldquo;It must come from the players and their intent to represent the club and their team. Highlanders were competitive and a long bus trip through the morning is always difficult to overcome, however, they do have room for improvement. &ldquo;When you know the potential of the squad you are always seeking ways in which to support the players in developing that potential and helping them become great players and great people at the same time. &ldquo;This is a never ending process for a coach and I believe if you&#39;ve become satisfied then you&#39;ve set low goals or have become stagnant.&rdquo; Intercity Rugby League Results: Old Georgians 94-0 Highlanders, Old Hararians 84-14 Bulldogs, Police Defenders 23- 15 Old Johannians, Mutare Sports Club 19-12 Mat Warriors.