HARARE - Africa&#39;s leading seed producer, SeedCo Limited (SeedCo), has declared a $10 million dividend after registering record-breaking $20,7 million profit for the year to March 31, 2017. The group&rsquo;s chief executive, Morgan Nzwere, yesterday said SeedCo will pay out a double dividend to shareholders after the company performed above analysts&rsquo; expectations. &ldquo;The board is recommending that a dividend of 2,92 cents per share be declared for the year ending March 31, 2017 payable to shareholders in the register of the company as at June 23, 2017,&rdquo; he said at an analysts briefing in the capital. Nzwere said the seed producer will also pay an additional once-off special dividend of 1,46 cents per share due to the &ldquo;exceptional performance in the current year&rdquo;. &ldquo;Shareholders will have an option to elect either cash or scrip dividend,&rdquo; he said. The SeedCo boss further indicated that the 41 percent increase in profit after tax benefitted from strong demand for maize seed on the back of a very good rainy season and strong input programmes. &ldquo;The out turn was particularly satisfactory given the inventory write-offs, exchange losses and increased finance charges incurred during the year,&rdquo; he said. In the period under review, the group&rsquo;s revenue went up 40 percent to $135 million compared to $96 million in the 2016 comparable period driven by increased maize seed sales volumes. &ldquo;Operating costs increased by 22 percent due to impairment of some receivables relating to cotton seed business and increased distribution and marketing costs related to the growth in sales volumes,&rdquo; Nzwere said. He added that finance charges increased to $4,1 million compared to $1,9 million last year due to discounting of treasury bills for cash in Zimbabwe and timing delays in payments by some regional governments which led to extended borrowings. &ldquo;Property, plant and equipment increased by $3,4 million mainly due to capital expenditure on purchase of a new research farm in South Africa, completion of the first phase of seed drying and processing facilities in Kenya, acquisition of a production farm in Zambia, resourcing of the new research laboratory and replacement of some seed dressing lines in Zimbabwe,&rdquo; Nzwere said. SeedCo closed the year with a net cash position of $18 million compared to net borrowings of $9 million last year due to a combination of growth profitability, increased cash sales, aggressive debt collection, reduction in inventories and liquidation of treasury bills. &ldquo;The group closed the year with a carryover volume position of almost 20 percent of expected annual sales which is the desired position. &ldquo;However, due to increased demand in the new selling season, seed production has been increased by 20 percent, including winter production to ensure that all markets are adequately serviced,&rdquo; Nzwere added.