HARARE - Dynamos have a chance to go top of the table for the first time this season if they beat Bantu Rovers in a Castle Lager Premiership match at the National Sports Stadium tonight. The match kicks off at 7:30pm. With the other leading teams only involved in action tomorrow, the Glamour Boys have been presented with the opportunity of topping the pile as the season approaches the halfway mark. In fact Lloyd Mutasa&rsquo;s charges could have been on top of the table had it not been for their halted match against Chapungu which was stopped in the 56th minute while leading 0-4 following the collapse of a goalpost. DeMbare remain favourites to get maximum points from that particular tie after the Premier Soccer League&rsquo;s Disciplinary Committee summoned Chapungu to a hearing for failure to provide an alternative replacement goalpost. This evening, the Harare giants are expected to bag all three points against a Tshintsha Guluva side that sits second from bottom with a paltry eight points from 15 matches. The Glamour Boys will, however, have to do without the services of in-form striker Emmanuel Mandiranga, who is suspended after picking up three yellow cards against Hwange, Yadah and Bulawayo City. DeMbare assistant coach Biggie Zuze said: &ldquo;I have to say that he (Mandiranga) is an important player for the team especially given the form he is currently enjoying. &ldquo;You always want to have all your players available but also it&rsquo;s known that if a player gets three yellow cards he will have to miss one game. So it&rsquo;s a challenge now to whoever who is going to be selected to come in and do well. &ldquo;I believe when a club sign 30 players, it means they are all capable to compete so, yes, I think we have capable replacements.&rdquo; On their game against Bantu Rovers, Zuze, who is standing in for Mutasa who is in South Africa with the Warriors for the Cosafa Castle Cup, said they are not looking much into their opponents&rsquo; poor form. Zuze said their biggest task now is to fight against complacency and has challenged his boys to maintain the same hunger that has seen them rack up 12 goals in their last five matches. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m pleased with my players because they deserve this for their commitment and work-rate in every training session and during the game,&rdquo; Zuze said. &ldquo;But we have to continue. Our focus now is on our match against Bantu (Rovers) and it&rsquo;s going to be another tough game. I hope the boys will maintain the same spirit to want to achieve more. I think for now our biggest challenge will be to guard against complacency. &ldquo;I hope the boys will be able to use our recent run as a motivation going forward. For now I prefer not to look at the table but rather to keep working hard because the league is a marathon and it&rsquo;s still a long way to go. &ldquo;This league is very tough and I think until the end, it will be a big battle for all the clubs.&rdquo; Dynamos are still monitoring the progress of midfielder Gift Saunyama and forward Quality Kangadzi, who are nursing injuries. But as usual they will be banking on the Cameroonian striker Christian Ntouba, who has been chipping in with some crucial goals lately. As for Bantu Rovers, they need to start winning matches if they entertain any hopes of surviving relegation at the end of the season. The Premier League matches will continue tomorrow with a number of matches lined up across the country. Fixtures: Today: Dynamos v Bantu Rovers (NSS, 7:30pm, SS) Tomorrow: Tsholotsho v Triangle United (Dulivhadzimu), Ngezi Platinum v FC Platinum (Baobab, SS), Chapungu v Chicken Inn (Ascot), ZPC Kariba v Black Rhinos (Nyamhunga), Harare City v Hwange (Morris Depot) Sunday: Highlanders v Yadah (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v How Mine (Maglas)