HARARE &ndash; Black Rhinos moved into first place on the Castle Lager Premiership log with a well-deserved 3-0 victory over Highlanders yesterday. While the home side&rsquo;s coach Stanford &ldquo;Stix&rdquo; Mutizwa insists they are still fighting against relegation, Chauya Chipembere can mount a serious title challenge judging by yesterday&rsquo;s performance. Forward Lot Chiwunga showcased his killer instinct with two goals either side of the half while goalkeeper Herbert Ruwaso scored the third from the spot. Chauya Chipembere are now on 26 points from 12 matches while second-placed Ngezi Platinum Stars are only behind on goal difference. &ldquo;I will still maintain that we are running away from relegation because when Rhinos were relegated (in 2014) they had 43 points,&rdquo; Mutizwa said. &ldquo;We want to try and collect as many points as possible to surpass that 43-point mark. After that we can then start to talk of maybe a top eight or a top four finish.&rdquo; For a side that is still coming from the lower division, Mutizwa is pleased with the way his players have been able to match the established teams in the top flight. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy that my boys are matching all these big guys; Dynamos, Highlanders and Chicken Inn. I want them to keep up the same momentum so that we run away from relegation,&rdquo; he said. Mutizwa&rsquo;s side were simply unplayable during some periods against Bosso yesterday as Cliff Chitsamba, Donald Mudadi and Taurai Chigudu stamped their authority in midfield. Chiwunga, Roy Mwenga and Benjamin Marere were menacing upfront. The home side were looking threatening, especially at set pieces where defender Sydney Linyama was winning all the headers. It was no surprise when Rhinos took the lead just before half time when the Bosso defence was caught napping from a corner kick. Milton Kureva and James Mukombwe played it short and the latter&rsquo;s cross into the box was headed across goal by Linyama. Chiwunga reacted fast to head the loose ball into the net with the Bosso defence scrambling. The Rhinos forward scored his second of the match a minute after the break when again he reacted quicker than the visitors&rsquo; defence to toe-poke the ball home after goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda had spilled a shot from Mukombwe. Referee Norman Matemera awarded Rhinos a spot kick midway through the second half when defender Tendai Ndlovu brought down Chiwunga inside the box. It looked like a harsh decision since Ndlovu got to the ball first before bringing down the Rhinos defender. Rusawo made no mistake from 12 yards out when he beat his opposite number with a rising shot. Highlanders coach Erol Akbay was disappointed with the loss after his side missed a number of chances. Strikers Ralph Matema and Prince Dube had good opportunities to get on the score sheet but were awful in front of goal. &ldquo;We played good football but they won the match. This is what happened today. We played some very good football in both halves but the problem is that if you don&rsquo;t score, you don&rsquo;t win matches,&rdquo; the Dutchman said. Akbay also blamed the way his team defended, particularly for Chiwunga&rsquo;s two strikes and the penalty decision. &ldquo;We also made stupid mistakes in defending, especially the second goal; the first goal it was the same,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The third goal he (Ndlovu) had to take a risk because there was one more attacker but in Zimbabwe if you just fall down inside the box you get a penalty. &ldquo;He (Chiwunga) just touched the ball and fell down and it was a penalty, I have no idea how we should defend to not get penalties (against us).&rdquo;