HARARE - There are fears that Zimbabwe&rsquo;s two One Day Internationals against Scotland in Edinburgh might be affected by the wet weather currently prevailing in the United Kingdom. Zimbabwe left for Scotland on Sunday via Dubai and arrived on Monday ahead of tomorrow&rsquo;s first encounter. &ldquo;Just arrived . . . weather could play a part on this tour; very overcast here . . . we are based in Edinburgh,&rdquo; Zimbabwe captain Graeme Cremer told the Daily News. There have been some heavy downpours in the past week in the UK which has also affected the ongoing ICC Champions Trophy. The Intercontinental Cup clash between Scotland and Namibia in Ayr over the weekend was also affected by rains. In the end, a draw was declared as there was no proper conclusion to the four-day game. The outlook for today and Friday in Edinburgh shows that the area will experience some patchy rain or showers. On the day of the first match tomorrow, there is forecast for some showers with a high temperature of 18 Degrees Celsius and a low of 10. The second match between Zimbabwe and Scotland is scheduled for Saturday with the forecast of clouds expected. Despite the weather concerns, Cremer and his teammates are determined to start their tour on a positive note. &ldquo;The training back home has been good, local games have been good, most of our players are finding some good form . . . and training camp had been good, team is looking forward to the challenge,&rdquo; Cremer said. After the short ODI series in Scotland, Zimbabwe will then depart for the Netherlands for three 50-over matches scheduled for June 21, 23 and 25. From the Netherlands, Zimbabwe will proceed to Sri Lanka for a series that comprises five ODIs and a single Test. &ldquo;Yes it is a very good thing (being away from home for a longer period), the more games guys play the better players will become ... experience on tours is like nothing else, and we have enough senior guys to help the junior guys on long tours like these,&rdquo; Cremer said. Zimbabwe squad: Ryan Burl, Sikandar Raza Butt, Chamunorwa Chibhabha, Graeme Cremer (capt), Craig Ervine, Hamilton Masakadza, Solomon Mire, Peter Joseph Moor, Christopher Mpofu, Tarisai Musakanda, Richard Ngarava, Donald Tiripano, Malcolm Waller, Sean Williams.