HARARE - George Chigova has set his sights on making the Warriors number 1 jersey his own after he was recently recalled into the team. Since the 2-2 draw against Tanzania in 2014 during a 2015 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier, former Warriors coach Kalisto Pasuwa had shunned the Polokwane City goalkeeper. During that period, former Dynamos goalkeeper Tatenda Mkuruva, Ngezi Platinum Stars&rsquo; Takabva Mawaya and How Mine&rsquo;s Donovan Bernard were the preferred choices between the goal-posts. However, interim Warriors coach Norman Mapeza recalled Chigova for the 2019 Afcon qualifier against Liberia two weeks ago. The Aces Youth Soccer Academy graduate made a triumphant return to the squad as he kept a clean sheet in the Warriors&rsquo; 3-0 win at the National Sports Stadium. Interim Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa, who will be in charge of Zimbabwe national soccer team at the 2017 Cosafa Castle Cup in South Africa, also kept faith in Chigova by including him in the squad for the tournament. &ldquo;When I left the national team, I understood the coaches&rsquo; decision because I was not playing regularly when I moved to SuperSport United,&rdquo; Chigova told the Daily News. &ldquo;I needed to start playing regularly and that has changed since I moved to Polokwane and the next step for me is to play regularly for the national team.&rdquo; After his quiet return in the win over Liberia, Chigova is pretty confident with the way he performed. &ldquo;It feels great to be back with the national team. When you are playing and doing well for your club, you expect to get called up to the national team,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy that I&rsquo;m back in the team. I had a good game in the Afcon qualifier and now we are going to the Cosafa Cup. &ldquo;Although we played against a Liberian side that was not attacking a lot, a clean sheet any day is always good for a goalkeeper.&rdquo; The former Dynamos goalkeeper says he was disappointed with his omission from the national team during Pasuwa&rsquo;s reign. &ldquo;It is very painful not to play for the national team. &ldquo;This is every footballer&rsquo;s dream to play for their national team,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;However, when you are not called up, you do not have to take it personal and just support whoever has taken your place. &ldquo;We cannot all play in the national team at the same time so whenever you get the opportunity, you must grab it with both hands.&rdquo; At the Cosafa Castle Cup, the Warriors need to negotiate their way out of a tricky preliminary round Group B that includes Mozambique, Seychelles and Madagascar.