HARARE &ndash; The Sheriff of the High Court has made a police report after failing to locate a bus that had been attached in the case involving Zifa and Daisy Lodge. Zifa are currently embroiled in a legal battle with the lodge after failing to settle a debt that now stands at over $161 000. Daisy Lodge successfully sued the association and was awarded a writ of execution to attach the association&rsquo;s property to offset the debt. Earlier this month, the Sherriff of the High Court went to the new Zifa offices located at president Philip Chiyangwa&rsquo;s business premises in Chisipite. The court bailiffs were able to attach a luxury Hyundai bus which Zifa had received from the South African Football Association (Safa) as part of the 2010 World Cup Legacy. When the Sheriff returned to the Zifa offices a few days later to remove and take the bus away for auction, they could not locate it. &ldquo;Attempted service but the bus was not located at the address of service. &ldquo;A police report was filed at Highlands Police Station under RRB 3185626,&rdquo; reads a report from the High Court seen by the Daily News. Efforts to get a comment from the police proved fruitless. According to the provisions of the law, any asset that has been placed under judicial attachment can only be removed by the Sheriff. If there is a dispute regarding the ownership of the asset, the rightful owner is supposed to file an interpleader with the court to stop the removal of the property.&nbsp;&nbsp; However, Chiyangwa told the Daily News that the Sheriff&rsquo;s attempts were futile since the bus did not belong to the association but Safa. &ldquo;Is there anyone with an invoice that says it&rsquo;s a Zifa bus?&rdquo; the Harare businessman said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not a Zifa bus and it&rsquo;s very unfortunate that there are some Zifa insiders who are peddling false news about the bus.&rdquo; After an inquiry by the Daily News last week, Safa had indicated that the bus remains their property and not Zifa. &ldquo;The bus officially belongs to Safa. It was given to Zifa a couple of weeks back as part of a number of cooperation assistance Safa is giving to Zifa in particular and members of the Cosafa Region,&rdquo; Safa spokesperson Dominic Chimhavi said. &ldquo;There is cooperation assistance Safa is giving to Zifa with the knowledge that our Zim counterparts don&rsquo;t own any assets. &ldquo;This cooperation assistance includes exchange programmes, financial assistance, sponsorship partnerships and any other assistance Zifa might require from Safa. &ldquo;There is a huge bond between South Africa and Zimbabwe and this can be evidenced within the political, cultural and sporting spheres and we believe that a strong Zimbabwe in football spheres will help in having a strong Cosafa Region.&rdquo;