HARARE - Miss Tourism Zimbabwe (MTZ) 2017 will take place on December 9 in Harare. MTZ patron Barbara Mzembi told journalists at a press conference held at a Harare hotel on Saturday that 15 girls will be in the running to replace reigning queen Ashley Morgan. &ldquo;Starting next month applications will be accessible on our Facebook and MTZ website before auditions that will screen 15 models to compete in the finals on December 9,&rdquo; the MTZ patron said, adding that the selected finalists will have 25 days to prepare for the finals. &ldquo;Come November, successful contestants will be booked into camp where they will be groomed and educated about the basics of modelling before our fundraising dinner on December 8.&rdquo; Bigtime Strategic Group, the main sponsor of the pageant, has been retained. Justice Maphosa, the director of the South Africa-headquartered company, who also attended the press conference, could not be drawn into revealing the winning prize for this year&rsquo;s edition. &ldquo;This is not about prize-giving, we are not betting horses. We promise to do what is best for the girl child since it is not about the money but the opportunities that they will get. &ldquo;This is an initiative aimed at raising awareness for the girl child to empower them especially at a time when a lot is being said about women and children,&rdquo; Maphosa said. At the MTZ 2016, Morgan, pocketed $20 000 made available by First Lady Grace Mugabe. She also won a trip to the United States of America and a hamper of &ldquo;I love New York&rdquo; brand of cosmetics. Before the first lady&rsquo;s intervention, Morgan was set to walk away with $5 000. First princess Nonhlanhla Dube won $10 000 and a holiday trip to China with second princess Shirley-Ann Lindsay pocketing $5 000. All contestants who made it into the top 10 received $10 000 each while all the girls who took part in the finals got a $1 000 participation fee. Meanwhile, Tourism minister Walter Mzembi, who also graced the weekend press conference, has urged local pageants to help boost domestic tourism. &ldquo;I am happy to hear that major pageants in this country are speaking to each other and we hope that they will focus on domestic tourism. &ldquo;We want to produce champions of zero tolerance to littering and violence that market products like the Eastern Highlands, Great Zimbabwe the revival of Kariba Dam.