HARARE &ndash; Local fertiliser manufacturer Zimphos&rsquo; Msasa sulphuric acid plant is now 25 percent complete amid indications it will come online by first quarter 2018, a junior minister said. Deputy Industry minister Chiratidzo Mabuwa said the country has invested about $1,8 million in the project to date. This comes as government recently expressed optimism that Zimbabwe would be able to avoid fertiliser shortages which hit the country during the 2016/17 agricultural season, on the back of re-tooling by local manufacturers. &ldquo;The remaining $5 million is currently being utilised to rebuild the sulphuric acid plant at the Zimphos Msasa plant,&rdquo; Mabuwa told senators last week. She said the plant was being constructed from a $10 million facility mobilised by the central bank to help ailing local fertiliser manufacturers retool. &ldquo;&hellip; The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ), mobilised resources to avail to local fertiliser firms to enable them to retool and modernise. &ldquo;During the last quarter of 2015, Zimphos secured a $10 million loan from the RBZ. Of that amount, $5 million has so far been utilised at Dorowa Mine to buy equipment as well as refurbish the plant. &ldquo;As a result of the intervention, Dorowa Mine is now operating at 60 percent capacity utilisation,&rdquo; the deputy minister said. Zimphos manufactures superphosphates while Dorowa Minerals produces phosphates for fertiliser production. Mabuwa also announced that the country&rsquo;s sole ammonium nitrate producer, Sable Chemicals, has since resumed production in April 2017. &ldquo;Currently, 1 500 tonnes of ammonia is in stock and an additional 2 000 tonnes was expected by mid-May. &ldquo;This development is expected to lead to a combined ammonium nitrate fertiliser output of about 7 000 tonnes,&rdquo; Mabuwa said, adding that capacity utilisation at local fertiliser companies has increased from 25 percent to 40 percent. Government &mdash; through the National Social Security Authority &mdash; also extended a $20 million facility to local fertiliser companies to drive the retooling process in the sector. Meanwhile, a Chinese investment company is expected to have set up a fertiliser processing plant in the country by end of August. The plant &mdash; to be undertaken by the China Industrial International Group Zimbabwe &mdash; has targeted a fertiliser processing plant with the capacity to produce a combined output of 300 000 tonnes of Compound D and uranium fertilisers. The $6 million plant will also boost the country&rsquo;s fertiliser production capacity and plug deficit which is usually plugged through imports.