HARARE &ndash; Harare City coach Philani &ldquo;Beefy&rdquo; Ncube feels there is still room for improvement after his charges continued their march with a deserved 2-0 victory over Triangle in a Castle Lager Premiership match yesterday. An own-goal by Triangle skipper Guthrie Zhokinyu and a second half William Manondo header was all the Sunshine Boys needed to pick up their third victory of the season to take their tally to 14 points after 14 rounds of action. City, who were coming from a midweek goalless draw against FC Platinum at Mandava Stadium on Wednesday, were full value for their win and could have added to the scoreline had their strikers been more clinical. &ldquo;As a coach you can never be satisfied especially considering the way we missed chances,&rdquo; Ncube said after the match. &ldquo;Today we took it from where we left against Platinum. We were very positive but there are certain areas that we need to rectify the right back and the strike force but there was improvement in midfield. &ldquo;We did well today especially in the first half we kept a lot of possession but it was unfortunate that we couldn&rsquo;t turn our dominance into more goals especially in the first half. &ldquo;Every game that we play is going to be like a cup final because where we are at the moment is not where we want to be. So we need to keep on working hard and produce more of these results going forward.&rdquo; It was an important victory for Ncube&rsquo;s charges, who continue with their resurgence after enduring an indifferent start to the season. Having come close on several occasions, the Sunshine Boys finally surged ahead four minutes from the break when Zhokinyu under pressure to clear his lines directed the ball into his own net following a mix-up with his goalkeeper Chris Mverechena. Manondo doubled the home side&rsquo;s lead on 64 minutes when he headed home a Takudzwa Chimwemwe corner kick. Triangle coach Taurai Mangwiro said: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a very disappointing result, we gifted them the goals. We conceded a bizarre goal against Yadah and we conceded in similar fashion again today. &ldquo;I thought in the first half we had two good chances but failed to make use of them which was our biggest undoing.&rdquo;