HARARE &ndash; Kuwadzana legislator and former model Betty Kaseke has organised a beauty pageant titled Miss Kuwadzana to be held tomorrow in her constituency meant to empower ghetto girls. The Miss Kuwadzana pageant scheduled for Holland Centre in the densely-populated suburb of Harare will be graced by Miss Zimbabwe Trust chairperson Marry Chiwenga. &ldquo;The Miss Kuwadzana is meant to bring out society&rsquo;s future leaders. This pageant is a build up to Kuwadzana Carnival to be held on August 26,&rdquo;Courage Mazuru the public relations officer in the office of Kaseke said. &ldquo;We have 15 girls participating in Miss Kuwadzana pageant. We are calling it Miss Kuwadzana pageant because it is targeting and is confined to the girl-child of Kuwadzana constituency. &ldquo;The event is running under the theme &lsquo;Empowering the girl-child through beauty pageant&rsquo; as Kaseke has great passion for the empowerment of the girl-child,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The girls are already in camp, they are staying at a local five-star hotel, they are undergoing tutorial sessions. We have taken them through educative trips to the National Heroes Acre, on Thursday, we took them to places of historical significance in Kuwadzana constituency, we have also toured some of projects which Kaseke is spearheading in the constituency such as women empowerment projects, orphanage support programmes, environmental management projects and water provision projects among others. &ldquo;The winners of this pageant will lead the Kuwadzana Carnival procession, another event to be held on August 26, 2017. Through Kuwadzana Carnival, we would like to showcase the cultural diversity of Kuwadzana constituency. &ldquo;We have also invited cultural groups from other constituencies surrounding us to take part in the street party on the day. We will spice up the carnival with a talent identification show under the banner Star Brite Show.&rdquo; Artistes who include Seh Calaz will perform at the event.