HARARE - Music lovers in Harare will be spoilt for choice this Saturday as the city is hosting more than four high-profile gigs, including Jamaican artistes Demarco and Beenie Man among others on the same day. On Saturday, Beenie Man will perform at Alex Sports Club courtesy of 2 Kings while Demarco, who is being promoted by Unlimited Expressions, will be at the Harare International Conference Centre. Winky D, who will also perform as a supporting act to Beenie Man, will headline the Coca-Cola sponsored event Unplugged scheduled for Pomona on the same date. On the same day, Chipaz Promotions will host a Zimdancehall gig at Guard Alert Gardens featuring many Zimdancehall artistes who include Soul Jah Love, Seh Calaz, Killer T and Hwindi President among others. The Chipaz Promotions gig is charging $2, the Demarco one and Beenie Man is charging between $5 and $20 while Unplugged is charging its usual $10. In a recent interview with the national arts mother body, National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz) said they have no problem with the &ldquo;clash of concerts on the same date in the same city&rdquo; after local promoters convinced the organisation to review the law that prohibited the hosting of two international concerts on the same date and place. &ldquo;Nacz held a promoters meeting on April 26, 2016 at the Music Centre in Harare where promoters requested the organisation to allow them to hold more than one international concert on the same day and town.&nbsp; &ldquo;Nacz considered the request and agreed that dates would be opened up to different promoters if they so wished to host international acts. &ldquo;No promoter would have a monopoly of dates as it would disadvantage other promoters who are also in arts promotion business,&rdquo; Cathrine Mthombeni, acting communications and marketing manager, said. 2 Kings Entertainment&rsquo;s publicist Dee Nosh was optimistic that all concerts will attract desired crowds. &ldquo;Zimbabwe has a population of about 13 million people hence four concerts are not even enough. &ldquo;We need more concerts, we believe 10 concerts can be done in Harare and all can be packed. Imagine, we have a number of big retail shops operating at the same place but they all realise profits,&rdquo; Dee Nosh said. Beenie Man who once performed in the country in 2010 will share the stage with Winky D, Jah Prayzah, Soul Jah Love, Cindy and Queen Vee among others. On the other hand, Simbarashe Maphosa popularly known as Templeman, the publicist for the Demarco concert told the Daily News that all is well. &ldquo;Ours is more of a family event where fans will choose their favourite artistes to perform as supporting acts. &ldquo;We are open to take local musicians from all genres, including sungura, hip-hop, Zimdancehall and rhumba among others,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;August 26, of late, has become the biggest day on the entertainment calendar as promoters will capitalise on the closing of Harare Agricultural Show. &ldquo;We are all optimistic that all the concerts will be filled up and we are expecting more concerts to be organised on the same date. Demarco&rsquo;s music appeals mostly to young generation while Beenie Man caters for the mature crowd.&rdquo;