HARARE - Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa was airlifted to South Africa for emergence treatment yesterday after the 75-year-old politician fell ill suddenly while attending President Robert Mugabe&rsquo;s sixth youth interface rally held at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda, the Daily News can report. The politician &ndash; who has the distinction of having survived the gallows on two occasions during the brutal liberation struggle &ndash; was first flown to a private hospital in Gweru owned by Premier Services Medical Investments to stabilise his condition, before being moved to Thornhill Airbase, for security reasons. He had to be flown to South Africa yesterday aboard a private jet operated by Star-Up of Peru, whose flight code was given as ZS-SRU. Mnangagwa was flown to Lanseria International Airport &ndash; a privately-owned airport situated north of Randburg and Sandton to the north west of Johannesburg &ndash; which has the historical significance of being an airstrip where the iconic Nelson Mandela (now late) was flown to upon being released from prison in 1990 after serving for 27 years. From Lanseria, he was said to have been taken to a Johannesburg private hospital where he is currently receiving specialist treatment 24/7, as close family members felt the Zanu PF second secretary needed access to medical facilities which are much more advanced than those found on the northern side of the Limpopo River. Widely regarded as Mugabe&rsquo;s most likely successor, Mnangagwa had complained of stomach cramps while seated in the VVIP tent as the Zanu PF leader, who has ruled his country since independence in 1980, was addressing thousands of ruling party supporters in the Matabeleland South capital on Saturday. He later started vomiting, amid suspicions of food poisoning in the wake of the dog-eat-dog infighting which has erupted in Zanu PF over Mugabe&rsquo;s successions. Although Mnangagwa initially received first aid treatment from Health and Child Care minister David Parirenyatwa &mdash; the vomiting continued &ndash; and the army had to dispatch a helicopter to ferry him to Claybank Hospital in Windsor Park, Gweru. According to eyewitnesses who were at the rally at Pelandaba Stadium built in the mid-1970s by the then Gwanda Rural District Council, Mnangagwa had excused himself twice to visit the bathroom before he was eventfully taken to hospital. &ldquo;When he (Mnangagwa) arrived at Pelandaba Stadium, he sat for less than 10 minutes in the VVIP tent. In a hurry, he went to the restrooms where he spent 20 or so minutes. He came back and briefly followed the proceedings before he rushed to the bathroom for the second time where he again spent close to 20 minutes,&rdquo; narrated an eyewitness. &ldquo;At that stage, he did not return to the tent. In fact, his aides came back and reported to State security minister Kembo Mohadi, and Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko that all did not appear to be well with the VP. &ldquo;Mphoko then instructed Parirenyatwa to attend to the VP saying he had heard he was not feeling well. After attending to him briefly, Mnangagwa was taken to an ambulance and Parirenyatwa went with him to Gweru,&rdquo; added the eyewitness. After receiving emergence treatment at Claybank Hospital in Gweru, Mnangagwa was taken to a military-run clinic at Thornhill Air Base &ndash; one of the two main air bases for the Air Force of Zimbabwe. While at Thornhill, security chefs &ndash; for long regarded as allies of the feared politician &ndash; were not comfortable with him spending the night there as they needed to first eliminate suspicions that Mnangagwa&rsquo;s rivals wanted to finish him off. As a result, Mnangagwa spent the night on Saturday under heavy guard. Psychomotor minister Josiah Hungwe, a close ally of Mnangagwa, narrated to the Daily News how the Vice President started complaining of stomach pains at Pelandaba Stadium. &ldquo;I was the first one to complain of stomach pains and I told him that I was having a problem. He later complained of stomach aches as well and at that point I just know that he left but I don&rsquo;t know what happened after that,&rdquo; said Hungwe. Zanu PF spokesperson Simon Khaya Moyo, was not taking questions from the media yesterday, saying whatever was happening to the Vice President was a &ldquo;family matter&rdquo;. When Mnangagwa was flown to South Africa yesterday, he was accompanied by his wife, Auxillia, his son Emmerson (Junior) and Mary Chiwenga &ndash; wife of Zimbabwe Defence Forces commander, Constantino Chiwenga. Mnangagwa had started his day normally on Saturday. He was among top government officials who attended the official opening of Jahunda Community Information Centre by Mugabe. As the dignitaries arrived at the event, Mphoko and Mnangagwa did not shake hands. And as the event progressed, the Daily News witnessed two youths clad in Zanu PF regalia heading for the VVIP stand where Mnangagwa was seated next to Mugabe, with Information Communication Technology minister Supa Mandiwanzira and Mphoko seated on the other side. The two Zanu PF youths who were carrying bottled water, first saved Mnangagwa and Mandiwanzira before progressing to Mugabe and Mphoko. At that point, Mnangagwa looked strong and fit. After the launch of the information centre, Mandiwanzira asked senior government officials including the two VPs to leave the venue first so as to ensure that they would be at Pelandaba Stadium in time to receive Mugabe. At the youth interface rally, Mnangagwa appeared strong as he chanted his popular pasi nemhandu (down with our enemy) slogan. However, about 40 minutes into Mugabe&rsquo;s speech, all hell the broke loose. Mnangagwa&rsquo;s allies were yesterday pointing accusing fingers at their rivals, the Generation 40 faction that is resistant to his presidential bid. In the past, there have been six break-ins at Mnangagwa&rsquo;s offices with his allies saying those were plots to eliminate him. In 2015, some burglars also tried to break into his offices, while on another occasion a leather sofa in the office was tampered with &mdash; and surprisingly, it is not clear on all these accounts what the motive was. In addition, State media reported two years ago that Mnangagwa had been involved in a car accident with a bus in Harare, in a case that his supporters claimed was an attempt on his life. And when his party offices at the Zanu PF headquarters was broken into in December 2014, Mugabe was quoted saying he was aware &ldquo;of people who really want to harm us, physical harm also&rdquo;. Zimbabwe&rsquo;s health facilities are currently struggling with antiquated equipment due to years of underfunding, while demoralised personnel manning them often complain of low salaries and poor working conditions. The situation is even worse for public hospitals, which cater for the majority of the country&rsquo;s poor population. The well-heeled only access local hospitals for minor illnesses, while their destination is either South Africa or India for serious health matters, with those who can afford it spending the top dollar to access treatment in Europe and the Far East. MDC leader, Morgan Tsvangirai is currently receiving treatment for colon cancer in South Africa, while Mugabe has on three occasions this year been to Singapore for &ldquo;routine medical check-ups&rdquo;. Mugabe and his administration face heavy criticism from their rivals for presiding over the collapse of the country&rsquo;s infrastructure, which they inherited from the Ian Smith regime in a very competitive state.