HARARE - Miss World Zimbabwe 2017 Chiedza Lorraine Mhosva will not be driving a swankie car but has every reason to celebrate after she was presented with a brand new Kia Picanto and a cash prize of $20 000 at a colourful prize-giving ceremony held in Harare yesterday. Just like the previous queen, Miss Zimbabwe Trust organisers stuck to their modest car prize &mdash; claiming that buying the beauty queens big wheels would not make economic sense for them as they would struggle to consistently service them. &ldquo;Mhosva is still young and unemployed as a result, we find it worthy to give her a car that she can afford to service. &ldquo;To us as Miss Zimbabwe Trust, it does not make sense to give her a car that is too expensive to maintain. We are glad that we have given her a brand new car,&rdquo; said Miss Zimbabwe Trust chairperson Marry Chiwenga. Apart from receiving the Kia Picanto, courtesy of Lachelle Travel and Tours, Mhosva, who was crowned national queen on June 22, was granted a year-long work-related attachment by the pageant&rsquo;s new sponsor, South Africa-based diversified firm, Bigtime Strategic Group. Bigtime Strategic Group gave all the monetary prizes and was represented by its founder and chairperson, Justice Maphosa and his wife. First princess Everlyn Njelele pocketed $10 000 while Kundai Somerai, who was crowned second princess, received $5 000. Tariro Angelica Zvizhinji, who won the People&rsquo;s Choice Award took home $5 000 while the other 12 finalists got $1 000 each. Mhosva promised to live up to the responsibilities that come with the crown. &ldquo;I am greatly honoured to have been chosen as your Miss World Zimbabwe for 2017. I will carry the crown with all the values that you have been bestowed in me. &ldquo;I hereby promise to hold the rules and regulations of the Trust and will not bring shame to your name . . . ,&rdquo; she said upon receiving the car. Mhosva, who is studying Professional Acting for Camera with City Varsity Cape Town, pledged to donate half of the cash prize she received towards her charity project of assisting the Doma people. &ldquo;I was taught that giving is mostly part of the roles of being a queen, so here today, please allow me to present to the Trust my pledge of $10 000 towards my project. &ldquo;I understand that so much has to be done to change the lives of the people I promised to serve. You have changed my life, so I wish to change other people&rsquo;s lives as well,&rdquo; she said.