HARARE - Renowned Zimbabwean academic, writer and former envoy George Kahari has been offered an Honorary Professorship of Education by the Appointments Board of the International Biographical Centre (IBC) of Cambridge, England. In a notification letter to Kahari, IBC director-general Nicholas Law said: &ldquo;Only a very select few are to be honoured in this way . . . The selection process is clear: a recipient must show the very highest level of achievement within the field of education and must be seen as an authority within this field of expertise.&rdquo; This comes hard on the heels of Kahari&rsquo;s nomination in June as International Educator of the Year 2017, an award the Cambridge-based institute said was made available only to a few illustrious individuals whose achievements and leadership stand out in the international community. Following this, Kahari was named Global Laureate of Education for his &ldquo;continuing achievements . . . dedication and work in education&rdquo; adding that they routinely &ldquo;seek out the world&rsquo;s greatest men and women . . . whose accomplishments transcend the ordinary&rdquo;. The International Biographical Centre is one of the leading biographical reference book publishers in the world with more than 20 Who&rsquo;s Who titles in 132 separate editions. Kahari, who has previously served as Zimbabwe&rsquo;s Ambassador to Germany, Italy and Czechoslovakia, was in 2012 nominated into the list of top 100 educators by the IBC in recognition of his &ldquo;contribution in their field to engender influence on a local, national or international basis&rdquo;. Kahari, who for many years was the Dean of the faculty of Arts at the University of Zimbabwe, has taught in the Department of African Languages and Literature at the same institution. Born on July 20, 1930, Kahari has several publications under his name the latest being A Standard Dictionary of Shona Names and The Odyssey of Shona Narratives (2015). Recently, Kahari has been a visiting professor of Modern African Literature at a couple of American universities.