HARARE - Now that Miss World Zimbabwe 2017 Chiedza Lorraine Mhosva has officially received her prize money of $20 000 and a brand new Kia Picanto, it is time she gets down to serious business. The Miss World Zimbabwe title is not just about the glitz and glamour, it is also about the social responsibility duties that Mhosva has to fulfil. Apart from proving her intelligence, talent and pleasing personality as the winner, Mhosva is an advocate of social service and she has a huge moral responsibility which she can execute if she maintains a respectable character. She must also be appealing and approachable to people of all age groups, especially the young. Miss Zimbabwe Trust should make sure the Miss World Zimbabwe is a full-time job, hence it has to be structured well and that the title holder&rsquo;s work schedule is fully-packaged. Mhosva&rsquo;s duty entails that as the country&rsquo;s Goodwill Ambassador, she would be able to travel to different areas around the country to perform charity work and speak at awareness occasions. The beauty queen should be in the forefront in the fight against HIV/Aids, drug abuse and child labour while promoting awareness to children&rsquo;s right to education, shelter and clean water. And we hope Miss Zimbabwe Trust will make sure the titleholder participates in events and operations organised for such worthy causes, thereby spreading awareness. With the grooming she has already gone through, aided by more training, Miss World Zimbabwe should respect the new atmosphere in which she will be operating, appreciate the culture, traditions and beliefs of the nation. It is hoped that through her title, Mhosva will hopefully inspire and entice more women to participate in Miss World Zimbabwe events. As a title-holder of a pageant, one of the skills she should possess is good communications skills because most of her public appearances as a Goodwill Ambassador or at a fundraiser event would require her to make commendable presentations about the cause she is supporting. Apart from domestic projects, we are glad that one of the sponsors, South Africa&rsquo;s Bigtime Strategic Group, has granted Miss World Zimbabwe a year-long work-related attachment. The South Africa-based company runs a number of projects and has adopted several schools at which they sponsor bright students. We hope during the time of her attachment, she will ride on Bigtime Strategic Group projects and be able to shine as most of her logistics would be covered. It is our hope that her new duties as Miss World Zimbabwe will not kill her professional dream and that she completes her studies as she has been a student of Professional Acting for Camera. Mhosva should also be creative and design her own programmes depending on what she wants to embark on during her term. It is encouraging that already Mhosva has pledged to donate half of the cash prize she received towards her charity project in which she is promoting the Doma people. In Zimbabwe, we would like her to be the face of the country and that she would be able to officiate and be a guest at most events that are people-oriented. And lest she forgets, she also needs to prepare well in advance for the world finals of which we all place our hopes. She has to shine at the world stage and follow in the footsteps of others before her who include Oslie Muringai, Cynthia Muvirimi, Lorraine Maphala, Caroline Marufu, Vanessa Sibanda and Samantha Tshuma. The first Miss World event was created by Eric Morley in 1951 as part of his promotion of the Festival of Britain, which took place on the South bank of the River Thames.