HARARE - Music superstar Oliver &ldquo;Tuku&rdquo; Mtukudzi will collaborate with India&rsquo;s best-known violinist, Lakshminarayana Subramaniam, in one of the highlights of the India in the Sunshine City Festival, which will run at various Harare venues from today until August 30. The Tuku-Subramaniam on-stage duet will take place on August 26 in the Harare Gardens. Given the fact that Tuku has over 60 albums under his belt while the Indian superstar has done over 150 recordings, the two celebrated artistes&rsquo; collaboration is expected to be nothing short of magical. In addition to the Tuku-Subramaniam classic, another event to look forward to is the Bollywood Extravaganza featuring Indian musicians and dancers who will collaborate with Zimbabwean artistes at Reps Theatre on August 29 and 30. There will also be a multitude of performances of the Indian Classical Odissi dance by Srjan Dance Company, both at the Reps Theatre from August 22 to 25. The festival, jointly organised by the Embassy of India in Zimbabwe and an organisation called Teamwork Arts, will also showcase cuisine from famous Indian Chef Vikram Vikram Udaygiri at the Food Festival to be hosted by Monomotapa Hotel, an exhibition of paintings, screenings of select films from India and yoga therapy sessions. Indian ambassador to Zimbabwe Masakui Rungsung has expressed delight with the way the he Sunshine City Festival is attracting more interest. &ldquo;The success of the festival echoes the desire of Zimbabweans to receive rich cultural offerings from vibrant, dynamic and diverse India. &ldquo;India and Zimbabwe, bound by shared history of a tumultuous journey from colonised countries to self-governance, have been friends and allies in mutual progress across areas covering political, economic, business, education and culture. &ldquo;Zimbabwe has a sizeable Indian Diaspora that is harmoniously integrated into Zimbabwean society. &ldquo;Through a variety of Indian visual and performing arts and some acts performed in collaboration with local artists at the Festival of India, we hope to strengthen the relationship between the two countries even more,&rdquo; said the ambassador.