HARARE - South Africa socialite Zodwa Wabantu is heading for Harare after an exciting dance with Bulawayo fans at Club Connect a week ago. In a previous interview with the Daily News in Bulawayo, the entertainer had promised to visit Harare and yes, she will be at Private Lounge in Harare on September 8. Private Lounge proprietor Biggie Chinoperekwei told the Daily News that the South African socialite is on a partying spree around Africa. &ldquo;She has expressed interest in visiting Private Lounge in Harare after she was well received in Bulawayo. &ldquo;She is coming just to party with her fans in Harare, not to showcase,&rdquo; Chinoperekwei said. In a previous interview with the Daily News, Zodwa Wabantu, real name Rebecca Zodwa Libram, said she was keen to meet President Robert Mugabe. &ldquo; . . . I would love to meet Mugabe, if given a chance, I will certainly love to meet that man,&rdquo; Zodwa Wabantu said then. Though it is still to be established what Zodwa, who became popular for wearing revealing dresses without pants, will do in Harare &mdash; in Bulawayo she visited old people&rsquo;s homes. In Bulawayo, she also visited Mqombothi Sports Bar in Nkulumane suburb where she mixed and mingled with her fans. She said the environment in the high density suburb made her feel more at home. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s my kind of lifestyle, being with the people, ekasi, in township, that&rsquo;s my, more of Tshisa Nyama, the outdoors I just loved it and that it was during the day I met the people,&rdquo; she said. In the evening, Zodwa graced the oversubscribed Club Connect. Clad in a skimpy black dress that revealed her sensual thighs, Zodwa, who spent of most her time in the VVIP booth, also joined the revellers on the dance floor where she exhibited her dancing skills that have made her popular. Pantless as she was, she came down to the fans where she mingled, mixed and danced with them setting the house on fire with others shouting; Zodwa, Zodwa, Zodwa! &ldquo;The response was just overwhelming, I am so loved in this country more than any country I have been to. &ldquo;I think they understand Zodwa, they see themselves in me, I am not a bling bling, I relate with them. I still use the same bath soap, I buy the same bread. Nothing has changed because I know where I come from. I will never change going forward,&rdquo; she said in a previous interview with this publication. &ldquo;I met Gringo who they say we look alike, it was nice meeting him and I realised people love him. He is such a nice guy.&rdquo; After completing her diplomatic mission in 2011, Pilime returned home and immediately applied for the Zimtrade chief executive&rsquo;s position, which was vacant.