HARARE - Kumafulatsi; By Wonder Guchu, Arts Initiates, 2015. 134 Pages Filth, debauchery, drunkenness, prostitution, child abuse, eroded moral fabric, false prophets, blackmail, homosexuality, poverty, petty thefts among others are all part and parcel of Wonder Guchu&rsquo;s exciting play, Kumafulatsi. It may not be fair to get into a detailed critique of Kumafulatsi, a 2015 Artsinitiates publication that explores life in one of Harare&rsquo;s oldest, albeit poorest residential areas. The history of the hostels in Matapi, Mbare and surrounding areas &mdash; essentially one-roomed apartments meant for single men &mdash; were constructed by the colonial regime way back in the 1940s to accommodate male workers when industrial expansion in the then Salisbury failed to get proportional workforce. The migrant labour from Mozambique, Zambia and Malawi, on which early industrial concerns relied on could not satisfy the needs of the expanding industry. Zimbabwean workers continued to work seasonally, returning to their rural homes for the agricultural season. They would work for a few days at a time and then return to their families in the rural areas. The hallmark of the hostels has remained the communal toilets and bathrooms. Use of the communal kitchens that were located outside each block of flats has almost stopped since most of these hostels today accommodate full families. The metamorphosis through which Matapi and related accommodation in Mbare has undergone both physically and in terms of the social life speaks of a place that has been left to rot, away from the rest of the country where the law intermittently mitigates from time to time. Kumafulatsi is an unusual play, so realistic that it slices open even the ugliest scenes that take place in the utter darkness of the night. Staging it on a conventional stage may only be suitable strictly for an adult audience. Its poignancy is refreshingly different as the author does not want to sugar-coat the ugly in our society. For him, the ugly is there in our midst and the worse we should do is to sweep it under the carpet. Only if the authorities knew what the overcrowding in these places has done on the Zimbabwean moral fabric. In the society of Kumafulatsi, no one seems to care and no one bothers at all but they can see through the walls all that is taking place inside. It is a part of them and has grown endemic. The homosexuality we see in Jose, opportunism of Comrade Shefu &mdash; a party activist &mdash; female rapists who force themselves on Jelasi after intoxicating him, threats of political thuggery represented by Chipangano among other ills combine to feast on the gullibility of the disadvantaged and marginalised residents of Kumafulatsi. On the other hand these render the play unparalleled real-for-life scenes.