HARARE - President Robert Mugabe, who arrived in the country in the early hours of yesterday morning, did not show up at the burial of Masvingo Provincial Affairs minister Shuvai Mahofa at the National Heroes Acre in Harare, amid speculation that woeful events of the past few days might have taken their toll on him, the Daily News can report. Mugabe, who conferred the national heroine status on the 76-year-old Mahofa mid last week, rarely misses a funeral of a top Zanu PF official when he is in the country. Zanu PF and government officials canvassed by the Daily News said Mugabe, who turns 94 in February next year, did not attend the burial along with his wife, Grace, as they needed to rest. Indeed, it had been a hectic week for the ageing Zanu PF leader who had to rush to Johannesburg ahead of a meeting of the 15-member Southern African Development Community (Sadc) bloc to calm a storm that had been brewed by his wife, Grace. The first lady got herself in deep trouble, which almost caused a diplomatic furore between Harare and Pretoria, after she assaulted a South African model, Gabriella Engels, at a Sandton hotel last weekend. The temperamental first lady had gone to South Africa to visit her two sons &mdash; Robert Junior and Bellarmine Chatunga &mdash; when she found Engels in their hotel room. In a fit of rage, she assaulted Engels, accusing her of cohabitating with her sons &mdash; who are both in their 20s and live in Johannesburg. Grace was lucky to escape arrest after she was granted diplomatic immunity by the South African government, ending days of nail-biting drama that kept the world entertained. A few days earlier, one of Mugabe&rsquo;s deputies &mdash; Emmerson Mnangagwa &mdash; had to be flown to South Africa to seek urgent medical attention following suspected food poisoning in Gwanda, where the Zanu PF leader was addressing Zanu PF youths. While Mnangagwa came back home a day earlier than his boss after spending a week detained in a South African hospital, he could also not make it for the burial as well. Many had, however, expected Mugabe and his wife to make it for Mahofa&rsquo;s burial at the national shrine considering that he touched down at the Harare International Airport at around 03:30am and that he had left the Sadc summit in mid-session, but that was not to be. The rumour mill was in full swing yesterday after Mugabe missed the burial of one of his praise-singers, Mahofa, who collapsed at her home in Rhodene, Masvingo, and died before she could be admitted to hospital last week. Speculation swirled yesterday that Mugabe stayed away from Mahofa&rsquo;s burial because it had been turned into a factional event.