HARARE - At least eight women will take part in today&rsquo;s Mr and Ms Novice bodybuilding contest to be held at the Pro Fitness Gym in the capital. Over the years, the National Federation of Zimbabwe Bodybuilding and Fitness (NFZBBF) has struggled to lure women to take part in the sport, which makes this a welcome development. &ldquo;We have about eight females who have confirmed their participation in tomorrow&rsquo;s Novice championships which is a massive increase from the numbers we have recorded in the past,&rdquo; NFZBBF secretary-general Quite Shangai told the Daily News yesterday. &ldquo;You will recall that in other such competitions we would have one, two, three or even no female representation at all. &ldquo;We look forward to build on this and continue to grow the sport from a ladies point of view so that our sport becomes all-encompassing because we subscribe very much to the gender balance issue. &ldquo;We are testimony to that point that what men can do, women can also do if not even better and Helen Costa is a perfect example.&rdquo; Meanwhile, Bulawayo have made their intentions of bagging this year&rsquo;s Novice titles known by registering at least 11 contestants for the competition. The team comprise senior men bodybuilding contestants made up of Temba Lunga, Justine Chikava and Philani Ndlovu. Woman bikini has Eulene Ndlovu and Khethiwe Ncube while Tapiwa Zimhamba, Gabriel Gwapedza and Keth Mombeshora make up the men physique team. The juniors (U21) from Bulawayo comprise Blessing Timburwi, Darlington Chigaba and Zibani Dube. Last year&rsquo;s Novice winner in the junior men bodybuilding was Bruce Mukono, who relegated to second and third place Keith Rukuwa and Thabo Ngulube respectively. Manners Mukuviri was crowned wheelchair men bodybuilding champion while Samson Muroiwa and Previous Willi finished in second and third. Women bikini fitness was won by Selina Manuels with Nicole da Foncesca and Yewukai Kangadze settling for second and third while men&rsquo;s fitness had Lovejoy Chaduka in first place followed by Tinotenda Gumbo and Edvaldo Mateus. Muchineripi Katena, Kudakwashe Maurukira and Lincoln Kazingizi were the top three winners in the senior men bodybuilding category. This year&rsquo;s sponsors include Muscle Range, Verenga Empire, Vanity Creations and Distributors, Beyond Fitness Gym, Royal Flair Events, ProFitness Health Club and Rachel Dube.