HARARE - CAPS United midfield star Devon Chafa has expressed his excitement after he was recalled into the Warriors&rsquo; setup by interim coach Norman Mapeza. Chafa was named in the 23-man squad to face Zambia in a friendly international at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. The midfielder last represented the national team in 2013 during a World Cup qualifier against Egypt when he tested positive for a banned substance. Chafa tested positive for prednisone &mdash; a substance included on WADA&rsquo;s 2013 Prohibited List under the class &lsquo;S9 &mdash; and as a result he banned from all football activities for six months. The former Dynamos midfielder had insisted that he did not take the prednisone unknowingly as it was contained in a cocktail of drugs he received for an injury. After serving his ban, Chafa soon moved to Bulawayo side How Mine when his contract with Dynamos expired at the end of 2014. He only played one season with the gold miners in 2015 before returning to the capital to sign for CAPS United at the start of last year. However, there was a delay in his registration papers resulting in him only playing in the second half of the season. Chafa went on to play an influential role in that second round as Makepekepe went onto clinch the title for the first time in 11 years. The New Year has also been favourable for the midfield enforcer as he once again starred for United on their way to sealing passage to the group stages of the African Champions League for the first time in the club&rsquo;s history. In the preliminary round, Makepekepe laboured to beat Lesotho champions Lioli FC 2-1 on aggregate. CAPS would, however, cause the shock of the tournament when they dumped five-time African champions TP Mazembe of DR Congo out of the tournament on away goals rule.&nbsp;&nbsp; It appears Chafa&rsquo;s exploits have not gone unnoticed as Mapeza, who was tasked to take charge of Warriors&rsquo; international friendly match against Chipolopolo, drafted the former Kiglon man into his squad for the match. &ldquo;Representing your country is always good,&rdquo; Chafa told the Daily News yesterday. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s everyone&rsquo;s dream to represent your country and this is one those opportunities which you need to utilise. It means a lot donning the national team colours and I am grateful to the coaches who have noticed my efforts.&rdquo; Chafa said he never stopped believing that one day he would bounce back to the national team setup. &ldquo;I was always positive that one day I would come back to the national team,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I kept working hard and remained focused at the same time.&rdquo; Warriors Squad: Goalkeepers: Edmore Sibanda (CAPS United), Petros Mhari (FC Platinum), Ariel Sibanda (Highlanders), Defenders: Partson Jaure (Ngezi Platinum Stars), Godknows Murwira (Ngezi Platinum Stars), Peter Muduwa (Highlanders), Qadar Amin (Ngezi Platinum Stars), Teenage Hadebe (Chicken Inn), Dennis Dauda (CAPS United), Ocean Mushure (Dynamos) Midfielders: Winston Mhango (FC Platinum), Ronald Chitiyo (CAPS United), Devon Chafa (CAPS United), Liberty Chakoroma (Ngezi Platinum), Raphael Manuvire (ZPC Kariba), Rodwell Chinyengetere (FC Platinum), Sipho Ndlovu (Bulawayo City) Strikers: Donald Teguru (Ngezi Platinum), Evans Rusike (Maritzburg United), Tendai Ndoro (Orlando Pirates), Prince Dube (Highlanders), Masimba Mambare (Dynamos), Terrence Dzukamanja (Ngezi Platinum)