HARARE - Zifa president Philip Chiyangwa has received glowing praises from the Lesotho Football Association (LeFA) after spearheading former Confederation of African Football (Caf) president Issa Hayatou&rsquo;s downfall. The long-serving Hayatou was deposed by Ahmad Ahmad of Madagascar during last week&rsquo;s elections held during the Caf General Assembly in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Chiyangwa, who is also the Cosafa president, was Ahmad&rsquo;s campaign manager and openly denounced Hayatou&rsquo;s 29-year reign. The rest of the African football leaders soon gravitated towards Chiyangwa&rsquo;s anti-Hayatou campaign culminating in Ahmad receiving 34 votes against the Cameroonian&rsquo;s 20 during the elections.&nbsp; LeFA president Salemane Phafane praised Chiyangwa for taking on Hayatou, who was seeking an eighth term in office and had presided over African football with an iron-fist since 1988. &ldquo;The president of LeFA...reiterates Lesotho&rsquo;s commitment to the leadership of the Cosafa under your command,&rdquo; Phafane said in a letter written on his behalf by LeFA secretary general Mokhosi Mohapi. &ldquo;He further on his behalf and on behalf of the football fraternity ... wishes to thank you for the role you played in the creation of a new dispensation in the Caf.&rdquo; Ahead of the elections, Fifa president Gianni Infantino together with some 12 African football leaders attended Chiyangwa&rsquo;s 58th birthday celebrations in Harare last month. Hayatou tried to stop Chiyangwa&rsquo;s celebrations and accused the Harare businessman of trying to &ldquo;destabilise&rdquo; Caf. The 70-year-old Cameroonian had also manipulated the Caf Executive Committee to arraign Chiyangwa before a disciplinary hearing shortly before the elections but that case is likely to go nowhere after Ahmad&rsquo;s victory. &ldquo;While you worked overtime to ensure the delivery, the president implores on you to take a moment to revisit your spiritual leader in God Himself,&rdquo; the letter to Chiyangwa said. The Zifa boss said the correspondence was well received and advices noted. &ldquo;It was the will of God through the various FAs that stood united and delivered Africa&rsquo;s wish,&rdquo; Chiyangwa said in reply.