HARARE - Delta Beverages will inject more than $5 million into the Premier Soccer League (PSL) for the next three years according to the company&rsquo;s marketing director, Max Karombo. Speaking at the official launch of the new deal, Karombo reiterated Delta&rsquo;s continued support of the top flight league while confirming the arrival of the Castle Lager Challenge Cup as correctly revealed by the Daily News yesterday. &ldquo;Today marks the beginning of a new three-year partnership between Delta Beverages and the country&rsquo;s top flight football,&rdquo; Karombo said. &ldquo;It gives me great pleasure to announce the renewal of our partnership with the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League for the next three years&rsquo; worth $3 450 000. &ldquo;We renew the league sponsorship to the tune of $700 000 per season and the Chibuku Super Cup worth $400 000 per season. &ldquo;To commemorate the 25th anniversary of the league, Delta Beverages will introduce the brand-new Castle Lager Challenge Cup. &ldquo;The Cup will be a challenge match between the PSL champions and the winners of the Chibuku Super Cup. &ldquo;Where both the league and the Chibuku Super Cup are won by the same team, then the team that comes second in the Castle Premier Soccer League will play the champions. &ldquo;Winners of the Challenge Cup will earn $30 000 while the runners-up take home $20 000. This money represents the direct cash injection into the coffers of the league and the clubs. Karombo added: &ldquo;Over and above this money, Delta Beverages will invest a further $2 million in support of the league through advertising and promotion of the league by deploying various activities that benefit the fans, consumers and traders of the Castle Lager and Chibuku Super. &ldquo;Therefore, the total investment Delta Beverages will commit to football in the next three years is worth $5 450 000. This is the biggest commitment to sport that any company in the country has ever done. &ldquo;All of us at Delta Beverages are committed to doing well by doing good in the communities in which we operate. We are happy to have been key contributors to the development of not only football, but also golf, tennis, rugby and fishing. &ldquo;Our signature on the sponsorship agreement will be a commitment to grow the Castle Lager, Chibuku Super and Premier Soccer League brands. We are excited to be back this year when the Premier Soccer League is celebrating 25 years of existence. &ldquo;It is our sincere hope that the unity that now prevails between football authorities and administrators will help bring in more sponsors to the game. &ldquo;We remain confident that there will be a common sense of purpose amongst all football stakeholders to support our game and the image of our beautiful Zimbabwe.&rdquo; PSL acting chairperson Kenny Mubaiwa insists he was delighted to have renewed the deal with Delta Beverages, saying he hopes that the relationship between both parties will continue to prosper heading into the future. &ldquo;It is my great pleasure to share another significant moment in the history of the Premier Soccer League,&rdquo; Mubaiwa said. &ldquo;...Allow me to convey our sincere gratitude to Delta Beverages for renewing their faith in us as a League through this sponsorship.&rdquo;