HARARE - Rapper-cum-filmaker Denise &ldquo;Dice&rdquo; Edwards, who was nominated for the Best Female and Best Video gongs at the 2016 Zim Hip-Hop Awards, has released a video for her duet with Donne titled Trouble. The video was directed by Charles Mugaviri Jr, who was also behind her acclaimed video for the song Rad. Mugaviri has rated the new video as Dice&rsquo;s best ever &ldquo;After releasing several music videos that have been play-listed by prestigious stations like Channel O, Dice is back with her best work to date,&rdquo; he told the Daily News. The respected filmmaker and video director is confident that the new video will underline Dice&rsquo;s status as a female trailblazer in Zim hip-hop. &ldquo;Dice has managed to shift the way women in Zim hip-hop are perceived by the industry. Trouble is a fun record that speaks on how the game perceives female rappers at this point. &ldquo;Dice is here to change all that with her amazing verses and cutting edge delivery. This record features Donne who has been co-signed by legends such as Begotten Sun,&rdquo; said Mugaviri. In her bid to create yet another top quality video, Dice featured fellow rappers Cal-vin, Sharky, Darrel Nyamutsamba (Da Real). The video&rsquo;s production crew included luxury event designer Craig Zoowie local designers Cleo and Noe Es who created outfits for the video&rsquo;s various scenes. The Trouble video is yet more proof that Dice, who bounced back on the rap scene two years ago, is now firmly back in music. The female rapper was among the first crop of urban grooves artistes who hit the scene around the year 2000 when she featured Roki on her song titled Rock. After dropping songs like Step Aside, If You Wanna and Love Triangle, Dice quit music to concentrate on filmmaking. She co-founded Harare-based Invision Studios which has produced over 36 short films for first-time filmmakers by providing them equipment and production assistance for free. Two years ago, Dice directed a television series called Wine and Dine with Tumi, which is aired on Zambezi Magic on DStv. This year she has produced Wedding Diaries and two other television shows that will be broadcast by Zambezi Magic and ZBC-TV. One of the highlights of her film-making career was co-writing and co-producing a film called Far From Yesterday which featured&nbsp; musician Ammara Brown, John Cole, model Jonathan Denga, Gani Phiri, Stacey Danana, and seven-year-old Hana Madzikanda who went on to win the Zimbabwe International Women Awards (Ziwa) 2015 Actress of the Year Award.