MUTARE - Shabanie Mine are ready to challenge for honours with a young technical team structured along European standards for maximum strength and conformity to Zifa&rsquo;s new standardisation regulations. At first, the Zvishavane-based side appointed Taku Shariwa as the head coach but the side was forced to rethink as he only holds a Caf B licence. Starting this season, Zifa has set new requirements with all coaches in the top flight league required to possess a Caf A licence. To satisfy the new coaching regulations, Shariwa lured his close friend Wilson Mtekede to come in as the head coach while he reverts to the role of assistant. Claudius Gunduza is the new Chinda Boys goalkeepers&rsquo; coach and the club is still finalising on tying down another assistant coach. &ldquo;I turned down an offer to go and coach in the Nigerian top flight league and another from Swaziland because I feel I need to make a proper name for myself locally before an international coaching career launch,&rdquo; Shariwa told the Daily News. He said he had to convince his long-time friend Mtekede to do the same. &ldquo;Mtekede is a great coach who is already on demand in Swaziland but, like myself, he believes the local Premiership is one of the strongest in Africa and if you can conquer here then you can make it anywhere,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;CAPS United&rsquo;s success against TP Mazembe and the name Dynamos has on the continent give testimony to that. Otherwise a poor league can never produce the polished performance CAPS United produced.&rdquo; He said they decided to sacrifice rich pickings in an African sojourn for now even at a club that is struggling with its finances to achieve more lasting professional results. &ldquo;The advantage we have at this great club is that everyone shares the same interest &ndash; playing good football,&rdquo; Shariwa said. &ldquo;The club is the soul of this town&rsquo;s love for football and wants us to give its loyal fans something to smile about every week. &ldquo;The players know that if they produce good football, sponsors will come and they can also open other doors for their career growth and the coaches know exactly what good football would do to their future.&rdquo; Shariwa cut his teeth as a coach in the Eastern Region Division One League for years before taking charge of Mutare City Rovers in his maiden season in the top flight last year. In the first half of the season, Rovers struggled for consistency but their fortunes would change once Shariwa took over in the second half of the season. Magusha were relegated at the end of the season mainly because of an administrative blunder when they fielded suspended forward Kuda Gurure in a league match against FC Platinum at Mandava Stadium. As a result, the club was docked three points which ended up becoming detrimental as they finished level on points with Tsholotsho, who were occupying the last safe spot on the log.