HARARE - Controversial dancer Beverly &ldquo;Bev&rdquo; Sibanda says a recent scan revealed that she is carrying a baby boy. Bev, who attracted national attention recently after claiming that she was carrying musician Andy Muridzo&rsquo;s baby, said she consulted a doctor last week. &ldquo;Shaa I was told it&rsquo;s a boy. I am experiencing some funny sickness, ndiri kungo-feela (l&rsquo;m feeling) weak so; it&rsquo;s very boring. I just pray that this awkward experience will not affect my work because angaita mahwani (it will be too bad),&rdquo; said the popular dancer who claims to be in her first trimester. Efforts to get a comment from Muridzo on the matter proved unsuccessful yesterday. But in a previous interview with the Daily News, Muridzo said he would not shirk his fatherly responsibilities if the controversial dancer delivered his child. &ldquo;If she is pregnant for sure then it&rsquo;s fine because the child shall be delivered and we will take it up from there,&rdquo; he said. A fortnight ago, the Chidhafu Dhudha singer conceded that his decision to publicly argue with the controversial dancer after she claimed she was carrying his child was ill-advised. After the Sexy Angels leader shocked the nation with the news at the beginning of the year, the Dherira singer&rsquo;s initial reaction was to apologise to his wife and fans after which he forcefully rebutted the controversial dancer&rsquo;s claims. &ldquo;I agree that it was unwise for me to trade accusations with her (Bev). After realising my mistake, I chose to remain quiet about the issue because of the nature of the person (Bev) I was dealing with. &ldquo;I paid the price for failing to realise that I am now a public figure and that this position comes with responsibilities. I now realise that as a public figure with fans that look up to me, I should stay away from unnecessary controversy; I should try my best to be a good role model,&rdquo; Muridzo said, adding that extra-marital relationships should not be encouraged.