HARARE - Rising artiste Bryan K has ventured into uncharted territory with his single titled Ndopenga. The new single, which features Zimdancehall star Dobba Don, was produced by Mr Kamera, an acclaimed South Africa-based Zimbabwean music producer. Ndopenga, the rising artiste&rsquo;s first single this year, is not a typical Bryan K one both in terms of theme and sound. Unlike most of his standout hits, the new song is not about love. It is rather about the importance of persevering until one achieves his/her dreams. The marriage of Bryan K&rsquo;s soulful voice and that of the husky-voiced Dobba Don creates a unique and beautiful listening experience. Chinhoyi-born Bryan K has lauded Dobba Don&rsquo;s contribution to his latest single. &ldquo;Dobba Don has got soul. He is one artiste I knew would understand where I was coming from and where I am going as far as the message in the song is concerned,&rdquo; the Nyaya Dzerudo singer explained. The rising artiste is confident that Ndopenga will appeal to many age groups because of the subject it tackles. &ldquo;I think Ndopenga is a great song that many people will relate to because many times people call us crazy when they see us fighting for our dreams and working hard to achieve what we want and what we believe in,&rdquo; Bryan K said. The Chinhoyi-born artiste, whose song Heavy Machine was one of the standout tracks of 2016, could not be drawn into comparing Ndopenga with his other hits. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t really look at Ndopenga as an improvement because they are different and cannot be compared. Each song is great in its own right,&rdquo; he said. The decision to move away from Reverb 7, who produced the chart-topping Heavy Machine, appears to be part of Bryan K&rsquo;s long-term strategy to create a sound that can appeal to music fans beyond Zimbabwe. It is not surprising that Bryan K has roped in Mr Kamera &mdash; a producer who has created hits with some of Africa&rsquo;s top musicians. Mr Kamera has produced hits for continental heavyweights such as Nigerians Ice Prince, Yemi Alade and Endia as well as South Africans DJ Maphorisa, Ma-E and L-Tido. Before he recorded Ndopenga, Bryan K and Mr Kamera collaborated on the latter&rsquo;s single titled Pamusika. The track has since been remixed with Nigerian hip-hop artist Ice Prince and Malawian music star Gemini Major being incorporated onto the hit. Mr Kamera, who was born Tatenda Terrence Kamera, is effusive about Bryan K&rsquo;s potential. &ldquo;Bryan K definitely has what it takes to make it on the continent. He has the voice, he has the sound and has the talent. I am working with different Zimbabwean and African artistes &hellip;collaborating on songs so that Zimbabwean artistes can be exposed to the continent,&rdquo; the respected producer told the Daily News on Sunday. Bryan K first attracted national attention in 2012 when he won the Starbrite talent search competition. The 24-year-old artiste, who calls his music AfroSoul, then dropped his debut album titled Nyaya Dzerudo in 2015 before unleashing the hit Heavy Machine&nbsp; last year.