HARARE - With the local economy on its knees, the arts sector is usually the first casualty as people cut down on their spending on leisure. The people who go to nightclubs become fewer and even the few that still attend spend less. Music fans, some of who follow their idols everywhere they perform, also cut on the number of concerts they can now attend. Others completely stop going out. Given this scenario, Afro-music sensation Bryn Mteki aka Sekurutau has initiated his own China Chemadzimai theme for Thursdays at Club Saratoga in Highfiled. China Chemadzimai was coined by traditional churches that hold ladies&rsquo; meetings every Thursday. To keep afloat and continue being in business, nightclubs have come up with various themed nights in a bid to lure revellers. From strip-tease showcases, to &lsquo;&lsquo;happy hour&rsquo;&rsquo; where beer is sold cheap, the nightclubs also offer the ever popular Ladies&rsquo; Night. The Ladies Night theme has been embraced by most clubs and on these special nights all ladies get in for free. As I grew up &mdash; unlike nowadays &mdash; Thursdays were special days for women church congregants as they trooped for these gatherings. Whatever happened there was anyone&rsquo;s guess but what we could see was that the women were smartly dressed in their church regalia attending these gatherings without fail. Unlike the churches&rsquo; China Chemadzimai, the one offered by nightclubs is such that men are the end target. The catch is to have women getting free entrance so as to lure men into the bar. It works because the men follow the women. While most nightclubs offer this special evening at which disco music is played all night spiced with various competitions with give aways, Sekurutau and his band will be playing every Thursday at the club and as for the ladies, it is on the house! I would like to imagine how many ladies actually attend his Thursday night bogies because Machipisa (where Club Saratoga operates from) is a popular outing at night usually infested with ladies of all colour. A plus for this initiative is that Sekurutau is among the first to introduce such a concept in which ladies get in free at his gigs. It is a first and courtesy of China Chemadzimai concept. I would imagine if this concept caught onto others like Jah Prayzah, Alick Macheso, Peter Moyo all who have hordes of ladies that follow them, and pay. What if they are to get in for free? And I have noticed that nightclubs in the city also capitalise on the opening and closing of schools with varying themed nights, from Schools Shut Down to Back to School. During this time there is also this rather bizarre day in which ladies are asked to wear their last school uniforms. It is crazy as most ladies of the night and party mongers all come to the club in school uniforms. And you can easily identify the schools these girls once attended!