HARARE - Dynamos continue with their title charge this afternoon when they take on struggling Bulawayo giants Highlanders in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Rufaro Stadium. The DeMbare juggernaut has proved unstoppable in the past few weeks with the Harare giants winning their last six league matches on the trot. Last weekend, Dynamos managed to secure a 2-0 win over city rivals CAPS United in the Harare derby at the National Sports Stadium. Cameroonian forward Christian Ntouba was clinical in front of goal, netting a brace that sunk the Green Machine. This afternoon, the Glamour Boys can take that winning run to seven games and cement their title credentials with a win against a Bosso side that has lost their previous four games. Highlanders come into today&rsquo;s game following defeats to ZPC Kariba (2-0), Tsholotsho (1-0), Ngezi Platinum Stars (3-0) and Chapungu (1-0). However, DeMbare are not going to ease off pressure on the gas pedal because they are playing against a Bosso side that is low on confidence. &ldquo;We will always remind each other of the games we lost in the past. If you look, we lost to a Black Rhinos side coming from Division One; we also lost to How Mine,&rdquo; Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa said last week. &ldquo;Highlanders are powerhouses and no matter the form they come in; we always say that a team that plays Dynamos will always raise their game. &ldquo;You see two teams playing together and you think you can go through them easily but when they come to play Dynamos, they won&rsquo;t make it easy for us. &ldquo;So we always psyche each other to know that every game we play as Dynamos will always be a tough match because our opponents would like to prove a point.&rdquo; While everything is hunky-dory in the DeMbare camp, Highlanders were on the brink of implosion last week. The poor form coincided with the announcement made in July by coach Erol Akbay that he would not be renewing his contract at the end of the season. The Dutchman has gone on to accuse the Highlanders executive of maladministration and failing to buy the strikers he requested. Bosso sold their main forwards Prince Dube (SuperSport United) and Roderick Mutuma (Yadah FC) during the mid-season transfer window. No replacements were brought in leaving Akbay to rely on the veteran Ralph Matema to lead the Bosso attack. The Bosso executive also hit back at Akbay as they accused the coach of not submitting any requests for replacements. At some stage, the tiff between the coach and his bosses was turning out to be a distraction for the under-performing side. But last week, Akbay and Bosso chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube presented a united front during a press conference where they made peace. &ldquo;My relationship with everybody at the club is very good, nothing has changed,&rdquo; Akbay said. &ldquo;What was at the beginning is still the same. We do our best and we cannot do more than that and that&rsquo;s my job as the coach. Everything is still the same.&rdquo; The Dutchman also warned DeMbare that a different Highlanders side from the one that was losing regularly will turn up this afternoon at Rufaro. &ldquo;This weekend is very important for us; the biggest game in the country, it is going to be a very exciting game on Sunday,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy with what I saw today at training. I hope we do that over the weekend against Dynamos. Our strongest part is that we can play very good football. &ldquo;These kind of big games; you can train and do whatever but I believe in the theory in football that he who wants to win will win the match, especially in these kind of games.&rdquo; Today Bantu Rovers v CAPS United (Hartsfield), Triangle v Hwange (Gibbo), Dynamos v Highlanders (Rufaro).