HARARE - It seems&nbsp;playing Dynamos was just the antidote Highlanders needed to snap out of their rotten run of form but ultimately yesterday&rsquo;s 1-1 draw will be remembered for the poor officiating from referee Arnold Ncube. This was a temperamental game which at times degenerated into total chaos as Ncube totally failed to control both sets of players from the start. In the end, red-hot Dynamos forward Christian Ntouba, who had scored in the second minute of the game was red-carded for an off-the-ball incident in the second half. DeMbare will feel hard done by the fact it was Benson Phiri, who grabbed the equaliser for Bosso in the second half, when the defender should have been red-carded also for striking Ntouba in another off-the-ball incident that went unpunished by Ncube. The past fortnight had been soothing for the Glamour Boys; first silencing the green and white half of the capital &mdash; CAPS United &mdash; and yesterday they thought they were en route to their seventh win on the trot and were going top of the log after Ntouba&rsquo;s early header from an Ocean Mushure free kick had given them the lead. However, Bosso rallied back in the second half to score through Phiri and went on to create a glut of good chances that went begging as DeMbare totally lost the plot. The second half display from DeMbare was out of character from the way they had played in the first 45 minutes. The Glamour Boys started the match like a house on fire and broke the deadlock in the second minute through Ntouba who dived to nod home his 11th goal of the season. It is certainly hard to imagine that after watching his team go down 0-1 to FC Platinum in his side&rsquo;s first match of the season &mdash; coach Lloyd Mutasa will build a beast of a team like the one he has right now. Perhaps the only blemish of his side is one Denver Mukamba &mdash; the midfielder is finding a place in the starting XI only due to his reputation rather than on form. Going down inside the second minute was just a bad start for Bosso &mdash; but then they showed they too have character to rise to the occasion when it matters the most. Despite heading into yesterday&rsquo;s crunch encounter winless in their last five encounters &mdash; Bosso showed that they are not entirely a bad side &mdash; perhaps the decision by their coach Erol Akbay to announce that he will be leaving at the end of the season stuffed some form out of the Bulawayo giants. True to the philosophy of total football of their Dutch coach &mdash;Bosso slowly grew into the match as they passed around the ball with neat aplomb but crucially they lacked the killer instinct in the final third. Bosso &mdash; the whole first half never really troubled Dynamos goalkeeper Tonderai Mateyaunga, and the only moment they got close to his goal in the 37th minute, Peace Makaha was at hand to clear the lines for the home side. That was after Godfrey Makaruse roasted Phakamani Dube on the right side before sending in a cross in the centre where Gabriel Nyoni failed to connect properly.&nbsp; A halftime pep talk from Akbay seemed to have knocked Bosso out of their slumber as they returned a better side and probed the DeMbare defence which had not conceded in their last five matches. The visitors even had a decent penalty appeal turned down by the referee Ncube when forward Mukaruse was bundled down inside the area by Dube. The DeMbare defender clearly caught Makaruse but to the chagrin of the Bosso bench, Ncube booked the forward for diving. Bosso, to their credit, refused to drop their heads as lanky centre half Phiri, who had been in the wars with Ntouba, got the visitors back in the game on the hour mark. Phiri was allowed time inside the box before turning to shoot home a cross from Simon Munawa to beat Mateyaunga. From there, Bosso upped the ante as they set camp in the DeMbare half for the better part of the second half. King Nadolo and Munawa bossed the midfield battle against Tichaona Chipunza and Gift Saunyama. Then the ugly side of football almost reared its ugly head with Bosso in the ascendancy. DeMbare fans felt decisions were going against their side and began to throw missiles onto the pitch. The previous encounter between these two teams in Bulawayo earlier this season ended in the 42nd minute due to crowd trouble and it looked like it would happen again. When play resumed it was the turn of the DeMbare bench to cause chaos as Mushure, who had been substituted, on two occasions kicked a second ball onto the pitch every time Bosso attacked forcing play to be stopped. Once again, the referee Ncube failed to deal with the unruly behaviour from the DeMbare captain. Teams: Dynamos: Tonderai Mateyaunga, Phakhamani Dube, Peace Makaha, Lincoln Zvasiya, Godfrey Mukambi, Tichaona Chipunza, Gift Saunyama, Cleopas Kapupurika (Emmanuel Mandiranga 62m), Denver Mukamba (Tawanda Macheke 49m), Christian Ntouba, Ocean Mushure (Masimba Mambare 70m) Highlanders: Ariel Sibanda, Bukhosi Ncube, Rahman Kutsanzira, King Nadolo, Brian Banda (Simon Munawa 51m), Godfrey Makaruse, Peter Mudhuwa, Tendai Ngulube, Honest Moyo, Gabriel Nyoni (Ralph Matema 85m), Benson Phiri.