HARARE - Dynamos&#39; Castle Lager Premiership title aspirations suffered a significant blow after they slumped to a solitary second half strike by Dominic Chungwa which ensured maximum points for CAPS United here yesterday and leaves the championship race wide open.&nbsp; The Glamour Boys went into yesterday&rsquo;s game, two points behind joint log leaders Chicken Inn and FC Platinum, who are tied on 51 points and had a chance to go top of the table if they had managed maximum points. But the opportunity slipped away as they remain third on the log table with 49 points although they still have a game in hand. In the end, it was sweet revenge for the Green Machine, who were beaten 0-2 by DeMbare in the reverse fixture at the National Sports Stadium last month. Dynamos did not hit the heights of recent performances and the Green Machine winner came on 69 minutes when Chungwa took full advantage of bad defending and poor goalkeeping by Tonderai Mateyaunga who had earlier produced some impressive saves.&nbsp; CAPS striker John Zhuwawo hit a searching ball towards Chungwa, and although it appeared harmless as Dynamos defenders Jimmy Kanono and Godfrey Mukambi appeared equal to the task, Mateyaunga somehow left his area before the striker rounded off the three on the edge of the box and found the target. Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa was also not happy with how the goal was conceded. &ldquo;I think we were a little bit slack in marking and they scored against the run of play,&rdquo; Mutasa said after the match. &ldquo;I am sure we had some few half chances and in games of this magnitude at times you don&rsquo;t get a lot of chances and if you cannot score you cannot win. It was a bad day for us today. We lost as a team they did not have so many chances just that they took their chance. Mutasa continued: &ldquo;As a team we would want to be consistent in terms of players who do duty but these are things that happen in football and we cannot cry over it, it&rsquo;s part and parcel of the game. It&rsquo;s a pity that those who came to fit in failed to deliver today.&rdquo; CAPS United were, however, full value for their win and with a bit of luck and precision Lloyd Chitembwe&rsquo;s side could have scored more goals but their strikers took turns to miss some clear-cut scoring chances while at times found Mateyaunga at his best. Makepekepe could have surged ahead as early as the first minute only for Zhuwawo&rsquo;s effort to be blocked by Mateyaunga after the DeMbare defence which missed the leadership of Lincoln Zvasiya, who was suspended failed to clear their lines. With DeMbare also missing their gritty midfielder Tichaona Chipunza, CAPS United went on to ask a lot of questions with Bamusi, Zhuwawo and Moses Muchenje all taking turns to miss some glorious opportunities. Dynamos had their chances too but there were few and far between and on 16 minutes CAPS United goalkeeper Jorum Muchambo almost gifted DeMbare with a goal when he failed to deal with a harmless Tawanda Macheke effort only to be rescued by debutant Goodwin Goruyati, who cleared the ball from the line.&nbsp; DeMbare&rsquo;s best chance though fell on exciting winger Cleaopas Kapupurika three minutes before the break only to send his effort to the terraces after getting to the end of an Ocean Mushure square ball. CAPS United assistant coach Mark Mathe said they were actually worried by the number of chances they missed but was happy with maximum points. &ldquo;We applied ourselves well today. It&rsquo;s actually worrisome that we couldn&rsquo;t utilise several opportunities that we created today. But we are happy with the win we thoroughly deserved the win today,&rdquo; Mathe said. With the win CAPS are now seventh on the log table with 35 points from 23 matches. Sadly in a bad advertising of local football, CAPS United fans celebrated their goal by throwing missiles onto the pitch while one of the team&rsquo;s fans had to be rushed to Parirenyatwa hospital after falling from the stands and suffering severe head injuries.&nbsp; Teams: Dynamos: Tonderai Mateyaunga, Peace Makaha, Phakhamani Dube, Marshal Machazane, Obey Mwerahari, Godfrey Mukambi, Gift Saunyama, Cleopas Kapupurika, Tawanda Macheke, Quality Kangadzi, Ocean Mushure CAPS United: Jorum Muchambo, Kudzai Nyamupfukudza, Stephen Makatuka, Justice Jangano, Devon Chafa, Doodwin Goriyati, Moses Muchenje, Phineas Bamusi, Dominic Chungwa, John Zhuwawo, Hardlife Zvirekwi