BULAWAYO - Highlanders coach Erol Akbay and his executive have buried the hatchet after days of public bickering as they prepare for Sunday&rsquo;s trip to face Dynamos at Rufaro Stadium. Akbay&rsquo;s relationship with his bosses had deteriorated in recent weeks and following the side&rsquo;s fourth loss on the trot last weekend to Chapungu, it reached new levels. While the Dutchman had publicly castigated the Bosso leadership for failing to buy him quality strikers, Highlanders&rsquo; executive led by acting chairperson Morden Ngwenya shot back at Akbay claiming they had done everything for the coach. However, Akbay spoke with a conciliatory tone during his press conference yesterday ahead of the game against DeMbare. &ldquo;My relationship with everybody at the club is very good, nothing has changed,&rdquo; the Dutchman said. &ldquo;What was at the beginning is still the same. We do our best and we cannot do more than that and that&rsquo;s my job as the coach. Everything is still the same.&rdquo; Akbay was, however, quick to point out that he will not change his decision not to renew his contract at the end of the season. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not my style to change my decision even if there is a good offer. I have no reason to change my decision,&rdquo; the Dutchman boldly declared. Speaking at the same press conference, Bosso chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube played down the public spat between the coach and the executive. &ldquo;There is a tendency to read too much into various things that are said. I think that the most important thing is that the club is always in various conversations at various levels and it&rsquo;s important,&rdquo; Dube said. &ldquo;When we are in a situation that we are in where we haven&rsquo;t picked up points that we expected, there is a bit of pressure. Sometimes when there is pressure the interpretation might be that the relationship is otherwise. &ldquo;There is very good professional conversations at the Highlanders leadership, technical and executive. I don&rsquo;t see any deterioration.&nbsp; Everything is being professionally handled, everything is ok and the house is in order.&rdquo; Turning to Sunday&rsquo;s match, Akbay said it was now time for his side to get back to winning ways. &ldquo;This weekend is very important for us; the biggest game in the country, it is going to be a very exciting game on Sunday,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy with what I saw today at training. I hope we do that over the weekend against Dynamos. Our strongest part is that we can play very good football. &ldquo;These kind of big games; you can train and do whatever but I believe in the theory in football that he who wants to win will win the match, especially in these kind of games.&rdquo; Today Ngezi Platinum v Harare City (Baobab) Saturday FC Platinum v How Mine (Mandava), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo City (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Yadah FC (Hartsfield), Chapungu v Shabanie Mine (Ascot), Tsholotsho v ZPC Kariba (Dulivhadzimu) Sunday Bantu Rovers v CAPS United (Hartsfield), Triangle v Hwange (Gibbo), Dynamos v Highlanders (Rufaro).