BULAWAYO - CAPS United were relieved after fighting back to earn a point against 10-man Bulawayo City in a re-arranged Castle Lager Premiership match here yesterday. The defending champions, who came into yesterday&rsquo;s match following a 2-0 defeat to Dynamos last weekend, had to come from behind to force a draw after falling behind to Ishmael Wadi&rsquo;s first half header. Makepekepe equalised at the start of the second half through forward John Zhuwawo and could not find a winner even after City defender Morris Kadzola was given his marching orders 20 minutes from full time. Following the result, CAPS, who still have three games in hand, moved into 11th place on the log with 29 points while Amakhosi remain in 10th place with 32 points.&nbsp;&nbsp; Makepekepe assistant coach Mark Mathe admitted yesterday&rsquo;s result was a welcome relief following their derby annihilation by DeMbare at the weekend. &ldquo;We are happy we got a point; it&rsquo;s not bad considering we had lost to our greatest rivals Dynamos. It was a morale-sapping defeat,&rdquo; Mathe said. &ldquo;Also on the contrary we could have collected three points today. We created a lot of chances but we were just not accurate in front of goal. It was a tough game.&rdquo; Bulawayo City coach Mandla Mpofu was content with a draw considering they had finished the match a man down. &ldquo;To us it&rsquo;s a precious point considering that we were playing a good team. Two tough games that we played, Saturday and today, we got four points out of six, I think it is good enough,&rdquo; Mpofu said. &ldquo;Overall, I think we did not come to the party especially in the second half, there was a lapse in concentration. We matched them pound for pound though.&rdquo; A draw was a fair result as both teams really struggled to find a breakthrough in front of goal for most periods in the match. Midfielder Newman Sianchali wasted a good opportunity to put the home side in the lead after 19 minutes when he directed his effort over the crossbar from inside the box following a good team move involving Clive Rupiya. After a brief period of lethargy from both sides, Amakhosi finally found the breakthrough in the 32nd minute when Wadi headed home a cross from Sipho Ndlovu to give his side the lead. Wadi almost scored the second for City five minutes later but the former FC Platinum forward&rsquo;s volley from a Kadzola cross was well saved by Makepekepe goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda. At the other end, Zhuwawo wasted a good chance to equalise when he shot straight at City keeper Ndodana Sibanda from the edge of the box on the stroke of halftime. Unlike in the first half, Makepekepe returned from the break playing with a high tempo as they searched for an equaliser. The Harare giants were duly rewarded for their fast start as Zhuwawo equalised in the 46th minute when he headed home a cross from Phenias Bamusi with the entire City defence at sea. Despite allowing the visitors to equalise, City went into attack from the restart and Ndlovu could have restored their lead but missed the target from close range. Sianchali also came close to restoring the home side&rsquo;s lead in the 57th minute but his shot from the edge of the box agonisingly crashed against the crossbar. Play started to swing from one end to the other with both teams throwing their all in search of a winner. However, City&rsquo;s momentum was stemmed when Kadzola was sent off by referee Munyaradzi Majoni for a second bookable offence in the 70th minute. Kadzola had been booked first for fouling Bamusi in the 40th minute and received his marching orders for bring down the same player in the second half. With Amakhosi a man down, Makepekepe seized the initiative as they poured forward in large numbers to find a winning goal. The home side&rsquo;s defence, however, stood strong to repel the CAPS attacks and secure a valuable point. Teams Bulawayo City: Ndodana Sibanda, Newman Sianchali (Dingani Maposa 90+2min), Sipho Ndlovu, Clive Rupiya (Andrew Tandi 72min), Ishmael Wadi, Munyaradzi Mungadze, Zephania Ngodzo, Rainsome Pavari, Zibusiso Sibanda, Innocent Kutsanzira, Morris Kadzola CAPS United: Edmore Sibanda, Valentine Musarurwa, Hardlife Zvirekwi, Carlton Munzabwa, Stephen Makatuka, Devon Chafa, Moses Muchenje, Phenias Bamusi, Abasirim Chidiebere, John Zhuwawo, Dominic Chungwa.