HARARE - With the Harare derby on tomorrow between CAPS United and Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium, the Daily News caught up with two fans to get their thoughts ahead of the match. CAPS&rsquo; defence is weak Dynamos are going to easily win tomorrow&rsquo;s Harare derby at the National Sports Stadium because the CAPS United defence is weak and porous according to prominent DeMbare fan Taurai Matokoza. The Makepekepe defence struggled a lot at the start of the season as they were also stretched by the demands of the African Champions League. &ldquo;CAPS are weak in defence and we all saw it in the Champions League where they were conceding a lot of goals,&rdquo; Matokoza told the Daily News. &ldquo;Goals were raining into the CAPS net and now with (Ronald) Pfumbidzai gone it&rsquo;s going to be worse on Sunday. &ldquo;We are going to score more than two goals on Sunday. If CAPS play well, we will beat them 2-0. Our Cameroonian striker Christian Ntouba is going to score together with our captain Ocean Mushure. &ldquo;Since we moved Mushure from defence to midfield, he has been scoring regularly even from set pieces.&rdquo; Last season, The Glamour Boys failed to beat Makepekepe in the league after the first fixture finished 1-0 in favour of United at Rufaro Stadium. The reverse fixture at the National Sports Stadium was a thrilling 3-3 draw following a remarkable CAPS comeback. Matokoza is confident DeMbare will finally get it right this time around.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &ldquo;On Sunday we are expecting nothing short of a Dynamos victory because we a on a five-game unbeaten run,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Although CAPS United are also on a five-game unbeaten run; they have two draws and a three wins. As for us its only five wins on the trot and this Sunday when we play CAPS make it six wins in a row.&rdquo; Matokoza added: &ldquo;Everything is going to change this year, when we played CAPS last year, it came after we had changed coaches with Portuguese gaffer Paulo Jorge Silva taking charge of the derby for the first time and we lost to them for the first time in seven years. &ldquo;In the second game last year, Lloyd Mutasa had taken charge of the team and we managed to draw the game. The set up of the team had been made by Silva but this year, Mutasa has assembled his own squad which is playing very well.&rdquo; DeMbare also come into this game on a five-game winning run that has seen them emerge as serious title contenders as they sit in third place on the log three points behind leaders Chicken Inn. Matokoza is confident that winning streak is going to continue tomorrow.&nbsp; &ldquo;We will continue with our winning form on Sunday and it is going to last until next year January when we are on off-season,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are not only going to win against CAPS United but we will also beat all the teams that we are going to play.&rdquo;