HARARE - In an atrocious move that is sure to set tongues wagging in local football, the Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) last night rescinded the red-card handed to Dynamos forward Christian Ntouba in the clash against Highlanders at Rufaro Stadium on Sunday. The Cameroonian, who had opened the scoring for Dynamos in the tie, was handed a straight red by referee Arnold Ncube after he head-butted Bosso defender Peter Muduhwa in an off-the-ball incident towards the end of the tie. Television replays &mdash; some circulating on social media &mdash; show that the referee was spot on in sending the Dynamos forward for an early shower. A statement released by Zifa last night read, &ldquo; The Zimbabwe football Association Referees Committee has rescinded the 87th minute sending off of Christian Joel Epoupa Ntouba during a Castle Lager Premier Soccer league match between Dynamos and Highlanders at Rufaro Stadium on September 10, 2017. &ldquo;Zifa president and&nbsp; Referees Committee Chairperson, .. Phillip Chiyangwa announced the decision following extensive deliberations with members of the referees&rsquo; committee and several important football stakeholders.&rdquo; By the time of going to the press last night, it was still not clear how the Referees Committee arrived at the decision to rescind Ntouba&rsquo;s red card or whether Dynamos had appealed Ncube&rsquo;s decision. Even if Dynamos had appealed the decision, it remains a mystery how the committee arrived at such a decision with the match having been played 24 hours earlier. What it basically means is that the Referees Committee had roughly eight hours to review Ncube&rsquo;s match report (if he had submitted any), review the match video, deliberate and arrive at the decision of rescinding the red-card. The local football fraternity will also anxiously wait to hear if the same Referees Committee will deal with Dynamos captain Ocean Mushure, who after being substituted, twice kicked the ball into play when Bosso were on the attack, forcing the match to be stopped. Efforts to get a comment from Zifa media officer Xolisani Gwesela were fruitless by the time of going to print. Zifa&rsquo;s abhorrent decision means Ntouba is now eligible to play in his side&rsquo;s crunch tie against city rivals CAPS United at Rufaro Stadium on Sunday.