BULAWAYO - Highlanders coach Erol Akbay says he had to fight for his rights after returning to work yesterday following a two-day strike over outstanding dues. Akbay missed the club&rsquo;s training sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday as he demanded his signing-on fees dating back from last season. Bosso, on the other hand, claimed the Dutch coach was unwell and could not take charge of the training sessions. &ldquo;We had a problem yesterday but we agreed on something and the problem is solved and we have to move on and we have things that we have to do, we have a match on Sunday and that is now more important,&rdquo; Akbay said in reference to Sunday&rsquo;s visit to Barbourfields Stadium by Shabanie Mine. &ldquo;Sometimes you have to fight to get something that you want or what you agreed on; so to me it&rsquo;s a good thing.&rdquo; Akbay, who led the Bulawayo giants to a third place finish last season, said although he skipped two days of training, he was confident his assistant coaches were up to task to prepare the team for the match against the newly-promoted Chinda Boys. &ldquo;If you miss two days the preparations will be affected but actually I&rsquo;m not a new coach and everybody knows what I want and everybody knows what type of training we do on a Tuesday and on Wednesday,&rdquo; he said. Bosso began their 2017 Castle Lager Premiership campaign with an impressive 2-0 victory over neighbours Bulawayo City last weekend while Shabanie held defending champions CAPS United to a goalless draw. Highlanders acting-chief-executive officer Emmert Ndlovu maintained that Akbay had been suffering from stomach cramps but admitted that, &ldquo;there were some minor technicalities and they have since been resolved and they really don&rsquo;t deserve to be in the papers&rdquo;. Meanwhile, Highlanders have unveiled a new partnership deal with Sunset Marketing which will see the production of Bosso Roller Meal. The deal which will see the two parties getting a 50-50 share of the proceeds from the sale of the maize-meal. Bosso Roller Meal will be packaged by Sunset Marketing and will soon be available on the local market. &ldquo;Highlanders will be getting a certain percentage and be able to write off some of our outstanding debts,&rdquo; Ndlovu said. Sunset Marketing sales manager Mufaro Msipa said they were happy to be in the partnership with the country&rsquo;s oldest football club which has huge following. &ldquo;We are happy to be associated with Highlanders; it is this opportunity that we have taken to produce the maize-meal for Highlanders Football club,&rdquo; Msipa said. &ldquo;We have about 500 tonnes in stock at the moment and we are already working on the supply chain. We have approached some of the large wholesales and local supermarkets such that we can start distributing the product.&rdquo; PSL Fixtures: Today: Yadah FC v ZPC Kariba (National Sports Stadium) Tomorrow: Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields Stadium), FC Platinum v Bantu Rovers (Maglas Stadium), Black Rhinos v Chapungu (National Sports Stadium), How Mine v Tsholotsho (Luveve Stadium) Sunday: CAPS United v Harare City (National Sports Stadium), Triangle United v Dynamos (Gibbo Stadium), Highlanders v Shabanie Mine (Barbourfields Stadium), Hwange v Ngezi Platinum (Colliery Stadium)