HARARE - Zimbabwe&#39;s State prosecutor has dropped fraud charges against Genius Kadungure, in a new twist to the R1,5 million scam that had rattled the South Africa-based businessman. The self-styled cooking gas tycoon was due to return to court this week for allegedly swindling Chegutu West Zanu PF legislator, Dexter Nduna, and a Kadoma-based miner, Wyclef Gatawa, of nearly R1,6 million. But National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) commercial crimes head, Chris Mutangadura, has said that the State would &ldquo;no longer pursue the matter after notification from the second complainant of his intention to withdraw the charges following an out-of-court settlement&rdquo; and the announcement means Kadungure will not appear in court anymore. The development also comes as the swaggering 33-year-old businessman had sought to drag Intratrek Zimbabwe (Intratrek) boss Wicknell Chivayo into the case, but the latter&rsquo;s lawyers &mdash; Thabani Mpofu and Manase &amp; Manase &mdash; have vehemently denied their &ldquo;client&rsquo;s involvement in petty, low-level transactions as he was a businessman of international repute&rdquo;. On his part, the ex-Zimbabwe national soccer team sponsor said yesterday: &ldquo;Please don&rsquo;t ask me anything about... Kadungure. I don&rsquo;t know him and have never done any business with him. I&rsquo;ve only read stories about his parties... and seen him online with his keeper... His inexplicable tactics of... mentioning big names in his... dealings are not only absurd, but preposterous.&rdquo; However, the Pioneer Gases founder&rsquo;s actions had been informed by co-accused Dania Kambwebwe&rsquo;s admittance that she had received the cash for onward transmission to other parties, thus prompting his lawyers to petition the local prosecutors. &ldquo;Our client is surprised that despite his explanation that is corroborated by the witness statement of Dania Kambwebwe, which explains our client&rsquo;s involvement in the matter, he has been singled out as the only accused person,&rdquo; Venturas and Samukange said in an April 10 letter to the NPA. &ldquo;The statements by Kambwebwe establish the link between... herself, Edward Teka and Blessing Shaya, but the charge sheet has been altered... for reasons unknown to our client,&rdquo; they said. Earlier, Kadungure&rsquo;s lawyers had also queried the wisdom of forging ahead with the trial in a matter, which was also being heard before a South African court. The State&rsquo;s case, meanwhile, said that Kadungure and his accomplices purportedly acted as State diamond mining firm Marange Resources&rsquo; procurement officials, which later referred the victims to a fictitious supplier called Transco Civil Engineering. Through this elaborate scam and front of non-existent companies in November 2012, the SA-based energy trader allegedly bilked Nduna&rsquo;s Badon Enterprises and Gatawa after monies were transferred into the bogus entity&rsquo;s Absa account.