HARARE - Zimbabwe golf captain for the Region V tournament, formerly Zone VI Championships, scheduled for Kitwe, Zambia next week Liberty Gumisa is upbeat his side will hold their own and bring the trophy home. The tournament gets underway next Thursday and will see Zimbabwe&rsquo;s two teams of four golfers squaring off against top amateur golfers from the region who include South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and hosts Zambia. Gumisa will spear head Zimbabwe&rsquo;s quest at the prestigious tournament alongside top local amateur David Amm, Never Milazi, Tonderai Masunga, Tafara Mpofu, Tatenda Makunde, Rasheed Mohamed and Bekithemba Ndlovu while Boniface Chigorimbo is the team manager. &ldquo;I have high hopes in this team and believe with the training that we have been going through I believe we shall return with perfect results,&rdquo; Gumisa said at the team&rsquo;s send-off ceremony at Chapman Golf Club yesterday. &ldquo;We want to go to the tournament and play well and hope that we can finish top. We keep on working hard and looking forward to a good tournament.&rdquo; Zimbabwe will be looking forward to end South Africa&rsquo;s dominance, who have won 18 times since 1995, while Namibia and Botswana are other notable nations taking part. Zimbabwe veteran coach Roger Baylis was also confident of ending SA&rsquo;s dominance saying the golfers are hardworking and looking forward to post good scores. &ldquo;We are quietly confident that our team will bring the trophy home,&rdquo; Baylis said. &ldquo;We took in account strategy, combinations, experience and recent performances and each player in the squad earned their selection based on these criteria, to ensure we take the strongest possible team to Zambia. &ldquo;I am really excited about this team. I think they complement each other, they are all in good shape and very hungry to win. They are a feisty bunch and will no doubt do their best to bring the trophy home.&rdquo; The team is expected to depart the country tomorrow for Lusaka before they proceed to Kitwe where the tournament tees off Thursday next week. G Tel and Nyaradzo are some of the corporate companies that have partnered the golf team.