HARARE - CAPS United goalkeeper Edmore &ldquo;ZiKeeper&rdquo; Sibanda is racing against time to be fit for Sunday&rsquo;s Castle Premiership clash against Harare City at the National Sports Stadium. Sibanda picked an injury in last weekend&rsquo;s goalless draw against Shabanie Mine at Maglas Stadium forcing him to skip some of the team&rsquo;s training sessions this week. Makepekepe are also likely to be without striker Simba Nhivi, who is still in contract negotiations with the club. Nhivi missed the game against Shabanie as the two parties are yet to agree on terms before the new deal can be signed. &ldquo;Eddie (Sibanda) is still limping and his chances of playing are 50-50. He might make it or he might not make it,&rdquo; Chitembwe told a press conference yesterday. On Nhivi&rsquo;s case, Chitembwe said: &ldquo;Simba has always been an important part of the team. He is someone who has great cognitive ability on the pitch. He is very comfortable playing in different positions on the pitch and not many players can do that. &ldquo;If he sees it fit to discontinue we just have to respect that, as a coach he is one player I really wanted to work with considering what he was giving to the team. But all the same the focus now is on players that are there.&rdquo; Following the goalless draw against Shabanie Mine, Chitembwe is confident his side will get the goals they need on Sunday. &ldquo;We are prepared. We are ready for the game and we are looking forward to it,&rdquo; he said. Meanwhile, Harare City coach Mike Madzivanyika says they will not give any respect to defending champions CAPS United on Sunday. The Sunshine Boys return to the National Sports Stadium having played a goalless draw against newly-promoted Yadah FC last weekend and are desperate for maximum points. Similarly, Makepekepe are also eager to pick their first set of full points having been held to a disappointing goalless draw against Shabanie Mine. However, City coach Madzivanyika said he is treating the game just like any other game. &ldquo;They have done well in terms of qualifying for Africa but this is a new game. To us it&rsquo;s just like any other game. We prepare the same whether it&rsquo;s the champions or not,&rdquo; he said. Madzivanyika said they needed to work more in their finishing if they are to beat CAPS United. &ldquo;We need to work on our finishing that was our biggest letdown in our last match. I think we played well against Yadah but our finishing was poor. We have been emphasising on that and we hope to do well against CAPS United,&rdquo; said Madzivanyika. He added: &ldquo;We have a clean bill of health and we hope we will get a positive result against CAPS United. I am happy with the team and the combinations are slowly coming up.&rdquo;