HARARE - Music star Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s three gigs in South Africa and Swaziland next month could turn out to be perfect platforms for the award-winning music artiste to boost his profile in Africa. At the beginning of May the Jerusarema singer will share the stage with continental hip-hop star Cassper Nyovest in two gigs set for Durban and Cape Town in South Africa. Jah Prayzah and Cassper Nyovest, who is currently topping South African charts with his just-released song titled Tito Mboweni, will kick off their joint shows on May 5 at the Ice Arena in Durban after which they will head to Cape Town&rsquo;s Castle of Good Hope the following day. Though sharing the stage with Cassper Nyovest will put the Uzumba-born artiste on the spotlight, his maiden appearance at Swaziland&rsquo;s MTN Bushfire Festival at on May 26 will be an even bigger deal. At the three-day internationally-acclaimed music &amp; arts festival, which will kick off on May 26, the Watora Mari singer will share the stage with some top African artistes who include South African jazz legend Hugh Masekela, rapper-turned-gospel artiste Faada Freddy (Senegal/ France), JoJo Abot (Ghana) and Femi Koya (Nigeria). The event, which on average attracts 25 000 music fans from across the globe every year, will also feature GoodLuck (South Africa), kwaito veterans TKZee, Congolese performer Balojiand the Belgian/South African newcomer Petite Noir. Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s manager Keen Mushapaidze is convinced that their brand will be much stronger&nbsp; after the three gigs. &ldquo;Definitely this will go a long way in establishing our roots as part of the global entertainment movement. &ldquo;Sharing the stage with well-established acts is not only an honour but also a merit on the journey we have travelled thus far,&rdquo; he told the Daily News. He added that they were particularly looking forward to taking part at the prestigious MTN Bushfire Festival. &ldquo;We are looking forward to the tours and promise to deliver our best. It will be our first time performing at the Bushfire Festival. It is one of Africa&rsquo;s leading festivals so we are looking forward to it,&rdquo; Mushapaidze said. Taking part at the MTN Bushfire Festival and sharing the stage with Cassper Nyovest will no doubt feed into Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s strategy of boosting his international profile by collaborating and holding joint shows with some of Africa&rsquo;s best musicians. To date, Jah Prayzah has done duets with African music giants Mafikizolo, Tanzanian international artiste Diamond Platnumz and Tswana songstress Charma Gal.