RUSAPE - Hitchhikers are frustrating Rusape&rsquo;s clean-up efforts by destroying bins along the Mutare-Harare highway by setting bonfires in them to keep warm at night, a senior council official has charged. Gladys Mushati, who heads the town&rsquo;s environment department, told journalists during a tour of the city that hitchhikers along the busy Mutare-Harare highway were damaging bins. &ldquo;Bins we set up along the highway are being quickly destroyed by travellers who make fire in them to keep warm at night, drastically reducing their life span to a few weeks instead of about six months,&rdquo; Mushati said. She said council is replacing them through the support of businesses and churches. The bins have been installed within a 50-metre radius throughout the small town. The town has been working on a clean-up campaign since 2012. This has seen it drastically reduce diarrhoeal cases as it has also moved its dumpsite further from residential stands and improved its refuse collection efforts. &ldquo;We previously had health challenges as we once had a suspected typhoid case, always battled diarrhoeal cases which have now been sharply reduced to negligible cases. &ldquo;The town had no street bins and a few business premises had no proper refuse receptacles while waste that was generated at household level was dumped on open spaces within residential areas . . . the collected refuse was also disposed at a dumpsite which was less than 100 metres from residential areas as well as Rusape River,&rdquo; director of housing and community services Lawrence Mushayabasa said, adding the dumpsite was itself illegal and was posing a public health nuisances in the form of odours and flies to the nearby residents. &ldquo;We have since decommissioned the Vengere dumpsite and a new dumpsite was set up in Tsanzaguru. We also managed to acquire a refuse compactor in 2015 for speedy refuse collection as we previously used tractors and this has now increased our collection efficiency rate to 80 percent,&rdquo; Mushayabasa said. He said council has also reduced illegal waste disposal through community health clubs whose members were often contracted to pick up litter in town. Vending is still posing a challenge, littering the town, Mushayabasa said. &ldquo;Illegal vendors are contributing to littering especially in town and along the highway. We continue to engage and educate them to place litter in appropriate places,&rdquo; he said. The local authority, however, still does not have an incinerator for the destruction of hazardous substances. &ldquo;We are encouraging institutions that generate such waste to transport it to Rusape General Hospital which itself however does not have a proper facility,&rdquo; Mushayabasa said.