HARARE - South African gospel icon Derrick Ndzimande is expected to grace Togarepi Chivaviro&rsquo;s album launch set for the Anglican Cathedral Gardens in Harare tonight. The Ebenezer singer will be unveiling his 13th studio offering Maranatha which was launched in South Africa last week. Chivaviro is delighted to have secured Ndzimande as his guest of honour. &ldquo;I am humbled to host a legend in South African gospel music; an iconic figure that I have always wished to meet and emulate,&rdquo; Chivaviro said. Maranatha, the title track of the 10-song album, was first released as a single late last year in a bid to promote the album. On Maranatha, Chivaviro collaborated with musicians who include Munyaradzi Munodawafa, Leonard Zhakata, Mathias Mhere, Agatha Murudzwa-Ndembera, Josh Kays and Olinda Marowa among others. &ldquo;We released Maranatha single late last year and the response was good and encouraging as it received an overwhelming airplay on local radio stations,&rdquo; said Chivaviro. Some of the songs on the new album include Tariro, Wabaiwa, Dzokera Kwawabva, Muna Vanhu Venyu Mwari, Dondifemerai, Zvaitwa and Glory. On Tariro, Chivaviro says people must pin their hopes on God as he is faithful and reliable unlike human beings while Wabaiwa is an Easter song which talks about the passion of Christ. The track Dzokera Kwawabva encourages people to seek refuge in Jesus&rsquo; name. &ldquo;When you are protected by the blood of Jesus every weapon fashioned against you will go back to sender,&rdquo; Chivaviro said. Zvaitwa is a celebratory song anchored on a sungura beat. Chivaviro is hopeful that the new album will be as popular as his hit song Ebenezer on which he featured the likes of Charles Charamba, Bethen Pasinawako-Ngolomi, Rumbi Zvirikuzhe, Kudzi Nyakudya, Mechanic Manyeruke, Noel Zembe and Pastor Lawrence Haisa . Some of Chivaviro&rsquo;s&nbsp; previous albums include Peace, Hope and Love (1999), Power (2000), Best of Rev TT Chivaviro (2006),&nbsp; The Return (2009) and Ishe Taungana (2013).