HARARE - Afro-jazz songbirds Clare Nyakujara and Eve Kawadza are on tour in the United States of America with Cirque Zuma Zuma &mdash; an ensemble of diverse artistes from 16 African countries. Clare told the Daily News yesterday that they were currently in Branson, Missouri where they will be based until May 3. &ldquo;We are currently at the World Fest, which started on April 9. We will be here the whole of April. There are other artistes but I have a 30-minute set three times a day every day until the festival ends on May 3,&rdquo; Clare said. She added that the backing band she has assembled for the festival has several Zimbabweans. &ldquo;I am working with Jimmy Buzuzi (her husband) on guitar, former Zimpraise member Tendekai Mano on bass, Joseph Madzinga on keyboards and a drummer called Jacob from Ghana. It is quite a tight band and I must say we are filling a 700-seater auditorium,&rdquo; said Clare. After the World Fest, the Cirque Zuma Zuma ensemble will head to Disneyland Park. &ldquo;The next stop will be Disneyland and Florida where the show will be an all-girl one. It will feature me, Eve Kawadza and Misoji Nkwabi from Tanzania. I will play guitar while the other girls do songs of their choice. &ldquo;It will be a 30-minute set hosted in a setting that showcases an African market called the Harambe. We will do our best to demonstrate how united we are as Africans. It will be more like a musical but we will sing our own songs,&rdquo; Clare told the Daily News. In addition to fulfilling her obligations with Cirque Zuma Zuma, Clare also recorded a new album. &ldquo;I arrived in the USA at the end of January this year, two months ahead of my tour with Cirque Zuma Zuma. I recorded a professional CD at Riverside Studios in Santa Cruz, Carlifornia under my producer Michael Horne from Pulse Productions. &ldquo;I recorded with American musicians in addition to Jimmy Buzuzi on guitar. The six-track album will be pushed into the mainstream of world music in America and Europe,&rdquo; said Clare.