HARARE - After many doubts and a lot of uncertainty, the Zimbabwe Open golf tournament will go ahead this month after the organisers were able to secure the necessary sponsorship. Old Mutual Zimbabwe are now the major associate sponsor of the Sunshine Tour-sanctioned event which will be hosted at the Royal Harare Golf Course. Previous title sponsors Delta Beverages through their brand Golden Pilsener will now come in as associate sponsors together with Sahwira Events. The anchor sponsors for the tournament are giant sugar producer Tongaat Hullets and internet services provider Zol Zimbabwe. Legacy Monomotapa are the also a sponsor of the tournament and the official accommodation partner of the Zimbabwe Open Committee (Zoc) which organises the tournament on behalf of the Zimbabwe Golf Association (ZGA).&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Avis Zimbabwe, CBZ Bank, FCB Bank, Guard Alert, Masimba Holdings, Nissan Clover Leaf, PSI, Rooneys, Sanitation Services, SeedCo, Speedlink Cargo, Truworths Zimbabwe, Nyaradzo Events and the Nomads are all coming in as partners of the tournament. The Zoc also received donations from OK Zimbabwe and Beta Holdings to make the tournament a success. The National Aids Council and National Blood Services Zimbabwe are the charity partners of the tournament. Zoc chairperson Leviston Gwata said: &ldquo;I am particularly delighted that we have been able to stage the Sunshine Tour sanctioned 2017 Zimbabwe Open against a background of great economic challenges. Sponsors were understandably fewer and more difficult to find this year. Our sponsors have made it possible for us to once again meet the staging costs and the guaranteed prize fund of R1 800 000 for this international tournament.&rdquo; Old Mutual Zimbabwe chief executive officer Jonas Mushosho said: &ldquo;This year, we have come on board as the major sponsor of this event that is not just about the sport of golf, but showcases Zimbabwe as a hospitable tourist venue. &ldquo;In addition, the Zim Open creates a congenial platform for the business community to interact, away from the sometimes intimidating atmosphere of the boardroom. &ldquo;As the largest integrated financial services group in Zimbabwe, Old Mutual is motivated by a desire to foster development by enabling our customers to pursue their financial goals. We believe that sport is an industry that promises so much for Zimbabwe. &ldquo;What is needed is for the business community and government to work together in creating opportunities for growth in this sector.&rdquo; The tournament will tee off on April 20 and will end on April 23. 2016 champion Lyre Rowe has confirmed he will be at Royal Harare to defend his title.