HARARE - A contentious Jimmy Dzingai first half strike saw newboys Yadah FC causing one of the biggest shocks in the Castle Lager Premiership thus far after they defeated ZPC Kariba on Friday. ZPC Kariba defender Talent Chamboko appeared to have cleared a Dzingai effort but referee Nomore Musundire with the assistance of his far side official ruled that the ball had crossed the line. ZPC Kariba coach Sunday Chidzambwa was annoyed by the decision but refused to question the referee&rsquo;s decision and instead chose to focus on his team&rsquo;s shortcomings. &ldquo;I think overall, we played badly we never controlled the game in 90 minutes and as a result we failed to create clear cut chances,&rdquo; Chidzambwa said. &ldquo;I think that&rsquo;s the reason why we lost and it happens in football sometimes you play well and sometimes you play badly. If a team fails to control the game I don&rsquo;t expect you to win. We failed to control the midfield especially in the first half.&rdquo; He added: &ldquo;I am not a referee. If goals come like that then I don&rsquo;t know. I can&rsquo;t speak for the referees, they said it&rsquo;s a goal and we must honour that. I don&rsquo;t want to comment about referees.&rdquo; With the win, Yadah FC are now top of the log with four points but the likes of FC Platinum, Chicken Inn, Highlanders and Ngezi Platinum if they win their matches this weekend. Yadah coach Jairos Tapera was pleased with the way his team applied themselves. &ldquo;To us it&rsquo;s a very important win, a win which we got after playing a seasoned team with a seasoned coach. Looking at how we performed in our last game and how we performed today (yesterday) I think we were so much organised defensively,&rdquo; Tapera said after the match. &ldquo;We gave these guys little space to operate. It was very unfortunate that we only scored one goal but I thought we could have added one or two. I am very happy with how the players are responding to our coaching methods on how we want to play.&rdquo;