HARARE - MDC&rsquo;s Nelson Chamisa, pictured, has said he is praying for good health for President Robert Mugabe so he lives beyond 2018 &ldquo;to see a new MDC-run Zimbabwe in which he will need not travel overseas for healthcare.&rdquo; This comes as the 93-year-old leader continues to splurge millions on frequent foreign healthcare travels, a habit which has infuriated long-suffering Zimbabweans failing to access basic drugs, including pain killers, at most public hospitals. Currently, the State-run hospitals are in a sorry state, with the institutions not having been retooled in a long time, while doctors and crucial health professionals recently called off a crippling three-week strike over poor remuneration, among other concerns. Addressing a rally in the densely-populated Mufakose suburb on Sunday, the MDC vice president said the deepening socio-economic and political crisis was testament that Zimbabwe was on the verge of change. He said the hoped for transition will indirectly benefit Mugabe &mdash; Zimbabwe&rsquo;s only president since the country&rsquo;s independence 37 years ago. &ldquo;When we get into power in 2018 . . . these hospitals you see are not going to be death traps that you see today in which you have to go with your own water and&nbsp; . . . drugs,&rdquo; Chamisa told the gathered crowd. &ldquo;These hospitals will be five-star hospitals . . . others are going to fake injuries just to get into hospital. When we get into power, I am praying that . . . Mugabe will still be alive to enjoy those benefits,&rdquo; he said, igniting applause. &ldquo;I want him to get healthcare at Parirenyatwa and not in Singapore. It&rsquo;s my greatest wish. To show that we can do it as Zimbabweans, after all we have the best doctors. Let Zimbabwe be a country of excellence.&rdquo; Chamisa added that Zimbabwe&rsquo;s rot did not need a rocket scientist or witch doctor to decipher, adding any ordinary Zimbabwean can see that bad governance has driven the country to the verge of collapse. &ldquo;Things are difficult in Zimbabwe not because of bad luck but bad governance,&rdquo; he said. The party&rsquo;s&rsquo; youth were launching a door-to-door voter registration campaign dubbed Bereka Mwana to urge party members to register as voters ahead of next year&rsquo;s general elections. And the Kuwadzana legislator grabbed the opportunity to promise a utopian society under the MDC, if they are voted into power. The changes included a change of governance culture, separation of party politics and government business, infrastructure development, provision of social services and greater international cooperation. Chamisa said the party&rsquo;s road map can only be implemented if every citizen registers to vote. &ldquo;The people in Zanu PF want us to help them, and we have to help them but all of us need to register to vote,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Every revolution is shaped by the circumstances of that time . . . the new bullet we have is the ballot . . . if you are youth and you have never voted know that you are the other reason for the problems we are facing, if you are a mother, a father, and you have never voted know that you are the other reason we are facing these problems.&rdquo; The MDC has been realigning forces with the war veterans and Chamisa reiterated the party&rsquo;s open tent policy insisting they are open to a grand coalition to struggling and fledgling opposition parties alike. &ldquo;We are saying ana Biti ana Mangoma, chero muchinakidzwa nekuridza ngoma yenyu, ngoma inonaka inenge ichiyambutsa nyika, iyoyo inorohwa na Save, siyai dzimwe ngoma muuye kuno. (We are saying to People&rsquo;s Democratic Party president Tendai Biti and Renewal Democrats of Zimbabwe president Elton Mangoma the only credible political party is the one led by MDC president Morgan Tsvangirai),&rdquo; Chamisa said. &ldquo;Tiri kuti kunana Mujuru hongu basa ringabatwe asi mujuru wakasimba ndiwo wakabatwa na Save.&rdquo; &ldquo;All parties let&rsquo;s unite and see how we can overcome this problem. Can we be less than dogs? Dogs will never eat each other no matter how hungry they are.&nbsp; As Zimbabweans we must be united . . . no one should be beaten for their political persuasion.&rdquo; He said the MDC &ldquo;will not repeat the mistake of the 2013 election&rdquo;, insisting the party will not enter a plebiscite that will not be preceded by electoral reforms. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t be less than a Form Four student who will refuse to write examinations whose questions were not drawn from the syllabus,&rdquo; he said.