HARARE - President Robert Mugabe yesterday used the burial of the late Brigadier General James Murozvi to reignite his feud with war veterans &mdash; who he bluntly said were not special &mdash; in addition to rebuffing their growing calls for the nonagenarian to step down now and pave the way for a successor. Most interestingly, Mugabe&rsquo;s unexpected outburst was in stark contrast to Tuesday&rsquo;s address by the commander of the defence forces, General Constantino Chiwenga, who paid a moving tribute to the war veterans for the role they played both in the country&rsquo;s liberation struggle war and in Zanu PF. Addressing mourners gathered at Murozvi&rsquo;s burial at the National Heroes Acre in Harare yesterday, Mugabe told the disgruntled ex-combatants that they had no right to dictate to him how he was supposed to run Zanu PF. &ldquo;Not once did he (Murozvi) cause havoc, to say oh, government you are messing up. He was different in character from other people who think that when they are war veterans they have a right to dictate how things are run in the party. No, he was well focused. &ldquo;Yes, we are war veterans, we are back, we were fighting for the people of Zimbabwe, we have a party that leads us . . . not one that we have a right to lead. &ldquo;In that party, yes, we hope as war veterans to be recognised for the work we did, so that we agree with the ideology . . . as we should always agree that politics leads the gun. &ldquo;So, he (Murozvi) was a straight man. That is what we ask of you (war vets),&rdquo; Mugabe thundered. &ldquo;That we have love and understanding, so that we have the right ideological direction that we are not any different from everyone else. &ldquo;We are together with them (ordinary citizens), that today we suffer together with everyone else . . . being a war veteran or anything . . . we should be united . . . there is no difference. &ldquo;There should be no difference. We must unite, being led by the party, Zanu PF . . . direction, direction, direction,&rdquo; Mugabe, who turned up for yesterday&rsquo;s solemn occasion sporting a shaved head, added.