HARARE - Rising Zimbabwean producer Philip &ldquo;Pip&rdquo; Kembo co-produced and co-wrote the song 1x1 which is on R&amp;B star&rsquo;s Trey Songz&rsquo;s latest offering titled Tremaine The Album. Harare-born Pip, who co-wrote 1x1 with Sermstyle, John Mitchell, and Nate Cyphert, is delighted to have contributed to Grammy-nominated Trey Songz&rsquo;s latest and seventh studio album which debuted at number three on The Billboard 200 this week. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a very fun, feel-good, summer song. With my brothers Silas and Arthur, we grew up listening to music like this so it is such a blessing to be able to create it,&rdquo; said Pip. He added that 1x1 was adapted from an old hit by American house singer Crystal Waters. &ldquo;In the song we sampled an old dance song called Gyspy Woman . . . and I think a lot of people will connect with it,&rdquo; the rising producer said. Co-producing and co-writing 1x1 is yet another feather in the cap for Pip whose career has blossomed in a big way since late last year when he co-produced Jamaican superstar Sean Paul&rsquo;s single titled No Lie with the internationally-acclaimed Sermstyle. &ldquo;I am very excited for this year. It is off to a great start and I am excited for everyone to hear all the music,&rdquo; said the 25-year-old music producer. Pip&rsquo;s song Hey Ma, which he co-wrote with fellow Los Angeles-based Zimbabwean producer &ldquo;T-Collar&rdquo; Sibanda, Sermstyle, John Mitchell and Soaky Siren, will be part of the soundtrack album for the upcoming American action film, The Fate of the Furious. The song, done by Pitbull, J Balvin and Camila Cabello, has an English and Spanish version. Pip and T-Collar are part of a talented group of young Zimbabwean producers who are attracting international acclaim. This exclusive group of talented Zimbabwean producers includes Grammy Award-winning Brian Soko and South Africa-based Mr Kamera who has produced music for world-class artistes who include Nigerians Ice Prince, Yemi Alade and Endia as well as South Africans DJ Maphorisa, Ma-E and L-Tido.