HARARE - First Lady Grace Mugabe&rsquo;s allies Eunice Sandi Moyo and Sarah Mahoka have resigned from the women&rsquo;s league, bringing to an end their acrimonious divorce from the Zanu PF influential wing following weeks of unrest sparked by mega demonstrations held against them by irate members. Mahoka, who is famed for having publicly dressed down Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa in front of President Robert Mugabe last year, was the women&rsquo;s league treasurer, while Sandi Moyo was Grace&rsquo;s deputy. Zanu PF spokesperson Simon Khaya Moyo told the media last night that the duo had resigned in the run-up to yesterday&rsquo;s explosive politburo meeting which was set to endorse their expulsion from the women&rsquo;s league, anyway. They have been asked to re-imburse the party undisclosed amounts of money they were accused of having misappropriated. Sandi Moyo and Mahoka remain card-carrying members of Zanu PF &ldquo;The secretary for women&rsquo;s league (Grace) gave a comprehensive report on the activities of Eunice Sandi Moyo, deputy secretary of women&rsquo;s league. Misconduct, errand and criminal behaviour were levelled against her. &ldquo;Women&rsquo;s league leadership had met twice to discuss the misdemeanours of Sandi Moyo and Mahoka and recommended that both be relieved of their duties in the women&rsquo;s league hence the matter be brought to the politburo. &ldquo;During this deliberation, the politburo was informed that both Sandi Moyo and Mahoka who are facing similar charges had handed their letters of resignation from their positions in the women&rsquo;s league,&rsquo; said Khaya Moyo. &ldquo;As per the women&rsquo;s league recommendations on the two and their subsequent resignation, the politburo accepted their resignations. &ldquo;Their resignations are a clear testimony that they committed the offences.&nbsp; They further have to pay back the funds they abused to the women&rsquo;s league,&rdquo; added Khaya Moyo. The women&rsquo;s league has been closely linked to a party faction going by the name Generation 40 (G40), which is rabidly opposed to Mnangagwa succeeding Mugabe. Mahoka and Sandi Moyo were also among the group of women&rsquo;s league members who have been aggressively pushing for the revival of the debate about the need for a woman to become one of Zanu PF&rsquo;s two vice presidents. Their calls for a woman to be elevated to the presidency were seen as directed against Mnangagwa, as the appointment of Mphoko was part of the conditions of the country&rsquo;s unity accord which resulted in the post of the second VP being reserved for senior former Zapu officials.