HARARE - Sungura ace, Alick Macheso was overwhelmed by the support and love shown to him by fellow musicians as they mobbed him during the City Sports Bar&rsquo;s Monday Jam Session this week. Participating at the popular Jam Session on Monday for the first time, Macheso said the gathering was a noble initiative that should be supported as it brought musicians and fans together. The City Sports Bar was packed to the rafters as fans responded to the week&rsquo;s session that was celebrating the sungura music genre. The event was also meant to remember one of the greatest sungura musicians of all time &mdash; Leonard &ldquo;Musorowenyoka&rdquo; Dembo. In celebrating the late Musorowenyoka, his son Tendai performed with the Barura Express much to the delight of the fans who danced and sang along to the late sungura maestro&rsquo;s hits. But the night belonged to Macheso who could not shake off the many hugs and photo shoots from both the fans and fellow musicians. Macheso told the Daily News after his performance: &ldquo;This idea of jam session is a noble one considering that it unites artistes and fans which is a healthy thing for us artistes. &ldquo;Mafans ndovarungu vacho. Kungoti dzimwe dzenguva tinenge takabatikana nekuwanda kwemabasa asi apo neapo zvinodiwa kumbowadzana nevatsigiri sezvizvi. (Fans are our paymasters. It&rsquo;s only that at times we get so busy but it is healthy to interact with fans),&rdquo; he said. Macheso graced the event together with sungura musicians; Somandla Ndebele, Peter Moyo, Simon Mutambi, Romeo Gasa, Tendai Dembo, Chikomana Shaddy, Tete Pipilo and Tryson Chimbetu among others. From the moment Macheso entered the joint, artistes including budding and seasoned mobbed him, took pictures with him while some just jostled to get close to him. By the time he jumped on the stage, the fully-packed joint reverberated with screams of joy, literally regarding him as a mini god. Macheso performed Charakupa and Tongai Moyo&rsquo;s hit Munyengeri while backed by Mutambi, Moyo and Ndebele much to the delight of the fans. He went on to perform Simon Chimbetu&rsquo;s hit Saina alongside Tryson. &ldquo;Words alone cannot do justice to what I am feeling right now. The response was amazing. What I can simply do is to retain the honour to the Almighty,&rdquo; Macheso told the Daily News after his brief act. Ndebele, who is set to release his latest and 22nd studio album this month performed one of his popular songs Makobvu Nematete. The joint manager Mathias Bangure said the amazing crowd shows that the majority of the patrons enjoy sungura more as compared to other musical genres. &ldquo;I realised that our patrons love sungura. This is a positive development to us considering that we have lined up all-sungura events for this week as we humbly commemorate the death of sungura legend Leonard Dembo who died on April 9, 1996. We call it sungura week,&rdquo; he said.