HARARE - After a four-month break, the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League kicks off this afternoon with the rest of the teams hoping wrestle the title away from CAPS United. Makepekepe get their title defence tomorrow with an away game to Maglas Stadium to take Shabanie Mine. New boys Yadah FC will get the ball rolling when they take on Harare City at the National Sports Stadium today. Yadah snapped up Wellington Kamudyariwa from FC Platinum, Brian Chikwenya, who signed from Bulawayo City, Moses Gutu from How Mine, Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye and Tafadzwa Dube both from Harare City while Moses Demera joined from Chicken Inn. The team also boasts of some experienced players in the form of the former Dynamos duo of Trymore Mtisi and Milton Makopa. Former Monomotapa midfielder Brian Mapfumo is also part of the squad that won promotion from the Zifa Eastern Region Division One. Yadah coach Jairos Tapera said: &ldquo;Most of the guys are available for selection and we can only wait for our first match against Harare City.&rdquo; City are equally confident of starting their campaign on a positive start. Speaking at the team&rsquo;s press conference on Thursday, the Sunshine Boys&rsquo; captain James Jam, said they are ready for the new campaign. &ldquo;I think football is just the same. In football, there is nothing really new, it&rsquo;s only the change of faces but football is just the same,&rdquo; Jam said referring to the new technical team led by Mike Madzivanyika. At Nyamhunga, ZPC Kariba will take on How Mine in a match both sides will be hoping to kick-start their respective campaigns. Chapungu begin a new era under Tendai Chikuni at Ascot when they take on Triangle, who are also under a new coach Taurai Mangwiro. In other matches, Bantu Rovers play Chicken Inn at Luveve while Tsholotsho begin their new life in Beitbridge when they take on Hwange at Dulivhadzimu. Ngezi Platinum will entertain army-side Black Rhinos at Baobab.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Fixtures: Today: Harare City v Yadah (National Sports Stadium), ZPC Kariba v How Mine (Nyamhunga Stadium), Ngezi Platinum v Black Rhinos (Baobab Stadium), Chapungu v Triangle United (Ascot Stadium), Bantu Rovers v Chicken Inn (Luveve Stadium), Tsholotsho v Hwange (Dulivhadzimu Stadium) Tomorrow: Dynamos v FC Platinum (National Sports Stadium), Shabanie Mine v CAPS United (Maglas Stadium), Highlanders v Bulawayo City (Barbourfields Stadium)