HARARE - United Kingdom-based gospel artiste, Angelina Lindiwe Mhlanga, is hopeful that her duet with the popular Takesure Zamar Ncube titled Hlala Nami will raise her profile in Zimbabwe. The collaborative song, which is the title track of her second album released last year, is being played regularly on several local radio stations, particularly, Star FM. &ldquo;Takesure Zamar Ncube has impressed me a lot. I am very confident that my collaboration with him &mdash; Hlala Nami &mdash; will make me more widely known in my land of birth,&rdquo; said Mhlanga, who uses the stage name Angie. She added that she was looking forward to sharing the stage with Zamar Ncube in the United Kingdom (UK) next month. &ldquo;Zamar Ncube will be touring the UK for the Nyasha 2017 Concerts. He will perform in London, Luton and Birmingham from May 26 to 28 in concerts that will also include Mupostori Wency and South African music star Ayanda Shange,&rdquo; Angie told the Daily News. To make her music better known in her land of birth, Angie intends to tour Zimbabwe &ldquo;in the not-so-distant future.&rdquo; &ldquo;I plan to do a tour in around Southern Africa. The tour will present me with the chance to reconnect with my homeland and to popularise my music. &ldquo;I currently have two albums which can be purchased from online stores. My first album was the 11-track Uyisiphephelo which I released in 2015. Last year, I released my second one Hlala Nami. &ldquo;I am currently working on my third album and will be doing a live DVD /audio recording at the end of July,&rdquo; the Bulawayo-born artiste said. Over the last few years, Angie, who sings alongside her 15-year-old daughter Lizzie, has shared the stage in the UK with many top gospel artistes from South Africa and Zimbabwe. &ldquo;I have sung on many stages and I have performed with Reverend Chivaviro, Baba Mechanic Manyeruke, Takesure Zamar Ncube, Rebecca Malope and Sipho Makhabane. &ldquo;I enjoy music and find great joy and excitement in composing, singing and performing but most of all I enjoy doing it for God. I attribute everything I have achieved in music to God,&rdquo; she said.