BULAWAYO - PPC Zimbabwe recently held their inaugural Invitational Kids&rsquo; Golf Tournament at Bulawayo Golf Club which received a lot of support from the local community. At least 25 boys and girls from Mzilikazi, Milton and Eveline High schools took part in the competition which was sponsored to the tune of over $2 000. PPC&rsquo;s General Manager for Sales Roger Steyn handed out prizes of golf bags and trolleys, as well as balls, satchels, gloves and other accessories to the lowest scoring young golfers. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s so nice to see everyone in red for this tournament which is a significant part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme and a dream come true for Brian and PPC,&rdquo; said Steyn. &ldquo;Be proud of yourselves and continue to fly our flag high.&rdquo; Sixteen-year-old Keith Phiri and Natasha Nyathi (15) were the lowest scorers in both the boys and girls categories respectively. Steyn the tournament was established when he played golf one day with former PPC Managing Director, Njombo Lekula, and local professional Brian Gondo joined them. Gondo a rising star on the local circuit, has with the support of PPC, been running a programme to introduce golf to students from government schools in the Bulawayo area for the past two years. &ldquo;Njombo was so impressed with his game and, at the same time, Brian was looking for sponsorship to help cover his expenses. &ldquo;So we came up with a plan for PPC to sponsor him, with part of the deal being that we would buy extra golf clubs and he would work with underprivileged children and instruct them in golf,&rdquo; Steyn said. Gondo said working under privileged children has been highly significant to him since he also has a similar break ground before using the sport to escape from squalor. &ldquo;I grew up having no idea what golf meant, just like these kids, and with not enough money to buy a golf ball,&rdquo; Gondo said. &ldquo;And now we are seeing these same kids, who started with a handicap of 24, playing with a handicap of 6 or 8, in just a couple of years,&rdquo; he said. Gondo added: &ldquo;The game of golf is about self-discipline, structure and perseverance, all good life lessons for the students to learn, and there&rsquo;s also the hope that it will keep them occupied in a positive way, and safe from the challenges of crime and drugs that affect so many young people, especially in less privileged societies.&rdquo;