HARARE - Chicken Inn succumbed to their first defeat of the season after falling 2-1 to an organised and determined Bulawayo City in a Castle Premiership match at Luveve Stadium yesterday.&nbsp; After thrashing PSL Premiership returnees Bantu Rovers last weekend many thought the Gamecocks were the team to beat this season but yesterday Rahman Gumbo and his charges were given a rude awakening of the task lies ahead. Mkhokheli Dube and Kelvin Madzongwe got the goals for Bulawayo City to ensure maximum points for Mandla Mpofu&rsquo;s ream having started their campaign with a 2-0 defeat to Highlanders last weekend. Chicken Inn got their goal through the boot of Thomas Kadyaridzire. It was a game that was characterised by a lot of physical play with both set of players going hard at each other. At one point, coaches from the two sides had a go for each other, exchanging words at the touchline as the game went more physical. The Gamecocks could have opened the scores six minutes into the match through Obadiah Tarumbwa but the forward watched his effort hit the cross bar and back into play after getting to the end of Tafadzwa Kutinyu&rsquo;s flick off a Divine Lunga cross from the left side. Chicken Inn went all over Amakhosi in the early stages of the match and City was forced to sit back and rely on counters before they finally broke the deadlock 29 minutes into the match through veteran striker Mkhokheli Dube. In one of Amakhosi&rsquo;s rare attacks Bhekimpilo Ncube headed back into play a seemingly over hit cross from Passmore Bernard. The ball fell on Mkhululi Moyo who threaded a pass onto an onrushing Dube who unleashed a thunderbolt from the edge of the box to beat Pride Zendera in goals for Chicken Inn. After the goal Chicken Inn upped the ante but failed to beat the resolute Amakhosi defence marshalled by Zibusiso Sibanda and Nyasha Mukumbi as the game went for the breather with Bulawayo City holding on to the 1-0 lead. In the second half the Gamecocks continued from where they left camping in the Amakhosi half in search for on an equaliser. They added more fire power upfront, introducing Ismael Lawe, George Majika and Thomas Kadyaridzire to bolster their strikeforce. Kadyaridzire repaid his coach&rsquo;s faith when he got the equaliser for the 2015 champions 78 minutes into the match with his first touch a minute after being introduced. The evergreen Clemence Matawu sent in an inviting cross into the box from the right and it was met by Kadyaridzire who headed the ball past Liberty Chirava to give hope to his team but Chicken Inn&rsquo;s celebrations were short lived after Kelvin Madzongwe scored the winner for City three minutes later. Zendera failed to deal with a seemingly easy to catch free kick from Munyaradzi Mungadze spilling the ball on the path of an alert Madzongwe who had the easiest of tasks to tap the ball into the net. After the match Bulawayo City Coach Mpofu was a happy man. &ldquo;I think I am trying to build a team, a team that can win games. It&rsquo;s work in progress. Three points is a good motivator going into the next game,&rdquo; Mpofu said. &ldquo;We showed a lot of character in the way we played. I am happy with the three points. His opposite number Gumbo saw some positives from his team despite the loss. &ldquo;It was a typical derby. City gave it their best. We gave it a good shot. We had two mistakes that cost the team,&rdquo; Gumbo said. &ldquo;Bulawayo City were sitting back relying on counter. At the end of the day, it&rsquo;s goals that count. It&rsquo;s just a setback, we have to lift ourselves up and move forward. We are one of the best teams in the league.&rdquo; At Maglas Stadium FC Platinum maintained their perfect start to the season after handing Bantu Rovers a 3-2 defeat with a Rodwell Chinyengetere brace and a Charles Sibanda strike ensure a second straight defeat for the PSL returnees. Bantu Rovers, who succumbed to a heavy 0-5 defeat in the hands of Chicken Inn in their opening game last weekend, got their goals through Newman Sianchali and Bukhosi Sibanda.&nbsp;