HARARE - Revived Chazezesa Challengers has disintegrated barely four months after launching their album Smoko Revival Zvachose. The group comprised Lee Roy Lunga, Lucky Mumiriki and Isaac Tazvida whose intention was to uphold the late System Tazvida&rsquo;s musical legacy. On Saturday, Isaac &ldquo;Zaks&rdquo; Tazvida younger brother to the late Anodyiwa Haataure hit maker performed with cousin King Tazvida at Nicholas Zakaria&rsquo;s album launch held at Aquatic Complex in Chitungwiza. &ldquo;Lunga has relocated to Mozambique and Mumiriki is now concentrating with grooming youngsters,&rdquo; said Tazvida. &ldquo;I am now pursuing a solo career again.&rdquo; Efforts to contact Lunga and Mumiriki were fruitless as the latter was not picking up his phone. Late last year in an interview with the Daily News, the three band members ruled out chances of a split. &ldquo;Experience is the best teacher in life. We have explored almost everything in the music industry individually and we have realised that it is better to have 10 percent of an elephant than to own 100 percent of a rat,&rdquo; Tazvida famed for his Chibhanguza song said then. The group Chazezesa Challengers was founded by System &ldquo;Wezhira&rdquo; Tazvida who churned hit albums including Rudo Tsika Nemagariro of 1993, Rwendo Rweupenyu of 1994, Mutunhu Une Mago, Wadenha Mago, Watosvorwa and Huni Nyoro Mumoto of 1998 among others before his death in 1999. System&rsquo;s departure saw his younger brother Peter taking over the leadership and he only released three studio albums &mdash; Rimi Remoto, Panopfungaira Pane Moto and Chadzera Chemoto before his death in 2002. After Peter&rsquo;s departure, Mumiriki left the group to join Alick Macheso&rsquo;s Orchestra Mberikwazvo while Lunga who joined the Chazezesa Challengers or Boyz DzeSmoko in 1994 as a lead guitarist before his elevation to band manager, tried to revive the once popular genre as a solo artiste but the shoes proved too big for him. While trying to revive the smoko genre, Lunga who boasts of over seven albums and two DVDs under his belt including Chabvondoka, Zviri Muchinokoro, Kupa Nekudya, Imhosva Here? Anga Ari Pano, Panorira Ngoma and Smoko Yega Yega, was embroiled in a leadership wrangle with Isaac. However, Isaac later relinquished the musical career as a solo artiste after hitting hard times before coming together again as Revived Chazezesa Challengers late last year.