HARARE - African Medallion Group (AMG)&rsquo;S gold medallions can be &ldquo;a future global currency&rdquo;, a leading South African millionaire and currency trader says. This also comes amid indications that the bullion initiative launched by Zimbabwean entrepreneur and philanthropist Frank Buyanga, is one of a few similarly-styled products by a continental industrialist in recent years, and the project could also help increase beneficiation strategies of the yellow metal. &ldquo;I see these medallions as the future global currency&hellip; you might have seen how well Bitcoin has been doing for the past few years. The only challenge with Bitcoin is (that it is) a crypto-currency that is (available) online,&rdquo; Sandile Shezi, the Global Forex Institute (GFI) chief executive. &ldquo;As a currency trader with seven years of experience, I think it&rsquo;s about time that I start diversifying my portfolio. I was fortunate to get exposed to the different markets at the age of 18, the stock market, currency market, commodities, of which I see Frank&rsquo;s initiative as an opportunity for me to start investing in gold (commodities) as I have been forced on currencies (forex) all these years,&rdquo; the Durban-based businessman said recently. With the GFI boss having snapped up the whole batch of 10 gold medallions in an undisclosed multi-million rand deal last Friday, Buyanga&rsquo;s AMG not only feels the precious mineral remains a &ldquo;good preservation of value&rdquo;, but offers one of the best investment returns since it has jumped from $280 per ounce in January 2000 to nearly $1 200 at present. &ldquo;I have been a gold investor myself for over a decade and, therefore, decided to create a platform where people from a cross-section of society will not only be able to invest in this commodity, but also create additional wealth avenues for themselves,&rdquo; the Hamilton Property Holdings owner said this week. &ldquo;In another view, our certified (and) pan-African medallions are a great way of legally preserving value under an initiative, which also allows any investor an opportunity to back their wealth with a strong valuable commodity that can easily be liquidated,&rdquo; Buyanga said. And an enthusiastic Shezi says unlike other commodities such as foreign currency, which needed Internet connections and largely technology savvy people, the gold medallions &ldquo;are a commodity that one can physically buy at a low price, keep and sell at a premium when prices improve&rdquo;. Having been recently appointed Pan African Business Forum director for small enterprise development, Buyanga started AMG as a way of diversifying his property and micro-financing business portfolio across many African countries.