HARARE - Songstress Wadzanayi &ldquo;Wanai&rdquo; Ndudzo has released two videos for the songs Ndiye Uye and Kana Ndinewe off her second and latest album Shinga. National Arts Merit Award (Nama)-winning music video director Willard &ldquo;Slimaz&rdquo; Magombedze, who directed videos for Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s songs Mwanasikana and Tsviriyo, did the video for Ndiye Uye while the one for Kana Ndinewe was directed by Blessing Gatsi. Wanai is hopeful that the new videos will boost the popularity of her fledgling brand. &ldquo;Videos are important tools for modern day musicians. Music fans identify more with artistes that they can connect with visually. As an artiste who is still at the formative stages of my music career I am hopeful that the videos will take my career to new heights,&rdquo; the Mudiwa Wangu singer told the Daily News. She added that she will release two more videos before the end of the month. &ldquo;The videos we are currently working on are for the title track and Pindirai Tete. By the end of April, I plan to have four videos off my latest album on the market,&rdquo; said Wanai. Her second and latest album Shinga was launched at Jazz 24/7 in Harare last August. On the album, she collaborated with talented guitarist-cum-vocalist Progress Chipfumo and Utakataka Express&rsquo; Congolese chanter Gift Katulika. Shiga Shiga featured on the title track with Chipfumo collaborating with Wanai on the song Mudiwa Wangu. Other songs on the album are Shumba Haina Mambo and Ridza Ngoma. Wanai, a product of the Zimbabwe College of Music, released her debut album Book of Love in 2014. After experimenting with Afro-Jazz on her debut album, the 28-year-old artiste adopted a variety of music genres on her latest offering. &ldquo;I have discovered that most of my fans love other musical genres that are more African. That is why I have diversified to other genres including Afro-pop; traditional and rhumba on my latest album and I am happy that fans have fallen in love with the music. The formula is yielding immediate positive results,&rdquo; she told the Daily News recently.