HARARE - Multi-talented Dalma Chiwereva, who has excelled as a dancer and actress, is now into music. Chiwereva collaborated with popular music producer Tapiwa &ldquo;Maselo&rdquo; Jera on a just-released song titled &ldquo;Male Male&rdquo; which is attracting a lot of air play on local radio stations. Chiwereva, who is set to embark on a three-month-long European tour with actress Getrude Munhamo as part of a cast of the play &ldquo;Lamentations @ 12,&rdquo; is convinced that the song, produced by&nbsp; Sunshine, will kick-start a successful music career. &ldquo;This is the first song I have recorded even though I have previously done backing vocals for Energy Mutodi. &ldquo;The truth is I have always been good at acting, dancing and singing. I therefore think Male Male (street lingo for money) is the beginning of a great music journey,&rdquo; said Bulawayo-born Chiwereva. She added that they will release more songs this year. &ldquo;More songs accompanied by videos are definitely coming. Monday (today) we will drop the Male Male video which was produced by Naxo Films. &ldquo;I enjoy making songs, acting and dancing and these three will not put me under pressure at all. &ldquo;Creating the right balance won&rsquo;t be a problem. Remember I once worked with Energy Mutodi as a backing vocalist while pursuing a marketing course and featuring in plays and films at the same time,&rdquo; said Chiwereva, who featured in the film &ldquo;Lobola&rdquo; alongside the likes of Munya Chidzonga. Interestingly, Male Male is also the first official single for Maselo, who made a name for himself as a producer for Andy Muridzo. &ldquo;I have always had a talent for singing but I was waiting for the right time to record my first song. It has always been my dream to create a group similar in style to popular South African bands like Mafikizolo and Malaika. &ldquo;I took my time to scout for the right partner. In the end, I settled for Dalma -a talented vocalist better known as a dancer and actress. I am confident that Male Male and the songs we will do thereafter will pleasantly surprise music fans,&rdquo; said Maselo.