HARARE - Multi-talented musician Leonard Zhakata will soon release a new album titled Mutungadzese Extended, his camp has revealed. Zhakata made history when three of his songs Madam Boss, Zvine Mwaka and Moyo Wekutenda from his latest album Mutugadzese scooped first, second and third prize respectively in the 2016 Radio Zimbabwe Coca-Cola Top 50 hit charts, a feat which made him walk away with the entire $6 000 prize money on offer. &ldquo;Zhakata&rsquo;s original plan had been to release Mutungadzese Extended in the first quarter of 2017, but the project has been delayed due to some unforeseen circumstances,&rdquo; Ben Zhakata, the Mugove hit maker&rsquo;s manager said. &ldquo;We are working tirelessly to ensure we come out with a quality product that everyone will like and feel proud of.&rdquo; Zhakata said they have lined up pre-launch concerts across the country so as to promote the forthcoming album. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s always good for fans to have a taste of an album before it is finally released; hence we have lined up concerts to provide fans with the opportunity. Recently we performed in Mutorashanga and Chegutu. &ldquo;Chitungwiza is our next target, we will be performing at Tanza Centre Bar and Nite Club on April 8,&rdquo; he said. Zhakata decided to come up with Mutungadzese Extended to include songs that he had planned for inclusion on Mutungadzese that was released last year in July, but ended up not featuring them. He will also add a new feel in some of the songs that featured on the successful album. In a previous interview with this publication, Zhakata said his end of year victory came at the right time. &ldquo;Some people thought I was finished but fans stood with me, sacrificing the little resources they have including airtime to vote hence I appreciate that. &ldquo;I know people talked a lot, with some claiming the victory was a result of prophet Makandiwa&rsquo;s miracles while others have attributed the success to UFIC congregants but little did they know that ...Makandiwa last spoke about my career in church way back in 2011 before I even released Gotwe, he rarely talks of artistes&rsquo; work in church. &ldquo;The only time he talked about my music was when he (Makandiwa) said his father was not a fan of secular music until he came across my music which changed his perception towards secular music. He fell in love with it which later forced him to introduce it to his family,&rdquo; he said then. Zhakata said the victory did not only surprise him alone but even some members of the UFIC. &ldquo;I was not the only one shocked by the development as it came as a surprise; even UFIC members were astonished by the victory as the majority of them were not aware of this voting process, however, they have promised to vote this year,&rdquo; he said then.