BULAWAYO - How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu says he has blooded in a number of inexperienced players into the team with the hope of getting a top four finish this season. Despite going down 1-0 to ZPC Kariba away at Nyamhunga Stadium at the weekend, the former Highlanders coach has put aside his team&rsquo;s misfortunes in the past two seasons and is focusing on building a team of champions. Kaindu cited the age as the major factor contributing to the teams&rsquo; poor show in recent years but believes the introduction of young blood this season will inspire Chikurupati to at least compete for a top four finish. &ldquo;We are aiming at top four and that&rsquo;s attainable, that&rsquo;s our vision. I believe with the right mentality we can achieve that at the end of the season,&rdquo; Kaindu told the Daily News. &ldquo;We have come up with a number of youngsters whom we have drafted into the squad. From the training sessions we have been having, the young players seem to be jellying well with the seasoned players we have.&rdquo; While Kaindu could not immediately avail the names of the youngsters who are part of the 30-member squad that he registered for this season, he said two of them signed from Harare&rsquo;s Prince Edward School, one from a Division Two side in Harare and the other he promoted from the team&rsquo;s juniors. This shows a lot of depth in terms of developing youngsters for the future, he said. &ldquo;Our average age for last season was not good most of the players were in their 30s and it made it difficult for us to have endurance. When their contracts expired we brought those in the range of 20 or below for the development of the team and the club,&rdquo; Kaindu added. How Mine released six players after their contracts expired and these included Tawanda Mparati, Tapiwa Kumbuyani, Fungai Chirinda and Victor Kamhuka. Impressive Zambian midfielder Makundika Sakala is now the team&rsquo;s captain. The team also acquired the services of former Hwange goal minder Future Sibanda and Brian Mbiriri. &ldquo;We brought in youngsters yet they may not bring results as yet but everybody is happy with the way they are adapting to the team.&rdquo; He added: &ldquo;It has not been good for How Mine in the past few seasons as no coach has started and ended a season. I think management saw what we were trying to do. We are starting a new season and we have seen a lot of support from the management and everybody believes that How Mine is not going to be there to add numbers but we will be there to push and compete.&rdquo;