HARARE - Zimbabweans have been ranked among Africa&rsquo;s poorest citizens, with an average wealth of $200 per person, a survey by AfrAsia Bank (AfrAsia) has revealed. According to the study &mdash; Africa Wealth Report 2017 &mdash;&nbsp; Mauritius has the wealthiest individuals with an average wealth of $25 700 per person while, interestingly, North African nations such as Algeria, Egypt and Morocco rank high on the list, despite recent instability. In the report, AfrAsia &mdash; a Mauritius-domiciled financial institution which once operated in Zimbabwe after acquiring the now-defunct Kingdom Financial Holdings Limited &mdash; noted that back in 2000, Zimbabwe was one of the wealthiest countries in sub-Saharan Africa on a wealth per capita basis. Back then, the 13 million-plus populated country ranked ahead of the likes of Nigeria, Kenya, Angola, Zambia and Ghana. But the country &mdash; once the continent&rsquo;s bread basket &mdash; has deteriorated due to a deepening socio-economic and political crisis. Lack of respect for the rule of law, poor ownership rights and brain drain, among other problems, have also dealt a major blow to Zimbabwe&rsquo;s prospects. &ldquo;In Zimbabwe, business owners are unsure as to whether their businesses or property will still belong to them a year down the line, which creates a situation where no one will take the chance of investing in the country,&rdquo; AfrAsia said, adding that &ldquo;ownership rights are key to facilitating wealth creation&rdquo;. &ldquo;On-going political intimidation and the alleged fixing of elections in 2002, 2005, 2008 and 2013. The banning of the independent media in the early 2000s, which has created a situation where it is impossible for investors to tell what is happening there,&rdquo; the financial institution said. &ldquo;Around 20 percent of Zimbabweans have fled the country since 2000, taking their remaining wealth with them. This has also led to a brain drain,&rdquo; it said in the report, a result of New World Wealth&rsquo;s extensive research covering Africa&rsquo;s wealth market. The report provides a comprehensive review of the wealth sector on the continent, including millionaire trends, luxury trends and wealth management trends from 2006 to 2016, with projections to 2026. It also noted that a large portion of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) flows into African governments has little impact on private wealth creation. On the other hand, it ranked Zimbabwe&rsquo;s neighbour, South Africa (SA), as having cities more attractive to the wealthy, with a large number of mega-rich individuals having migrated there over the past decade, especially from France and southern Africa. &ldquo;We estimate that 280 millionaires have moved there since 2006,&rdquo; AfrAsia said, further stating that the country&rsquo;s &ldquo;thriving and growing financial services sector, particularly in offshore banking, fund management and private banking . . . automatic permanent residency if one buys a US$500 000+ home in the country . . . encourage wealthy people to move there&rdquo;.