HARARE - War veteran and former diplomat, Agrippa Mutambara, was yesterday named the new leader of the Zimbabwe People First (ZPF) &mdash; amid chaotic scenes which threatened to derail the meeting which had been called to announce the party&rsquo;s new leadership. At the stormy meeting held in Harare, ZPF founding fathers, Didymus Mutasa and Rugare Gumbo, were also relegated to peripheral roles &mdash; with Mutambara taking charge of the fledgling party in an acting capacity. Fearless former war veterans&rsquo; leader, Jabulani Sibanda, came out of his long political hibernation to be elected the party&rsquo;s commissar. But the gathering was marred by ugly scenes which rocked the troubled outfit, with angry supporters besieging its headquarters and causing the cancellation of a press conference that had been scheduled to announce the party&rsquo;s new leadership. The supporters were protesting the party&rsquo;s failure to appoint a substantive president. ZPF acting spokesperson, Kudakwashe Bhasikiti, was forced to chase away the journalists who had turned up for the scheduled media briefing &mdash; although he did apologise for the chaotic scenes. &ldquo;I want to apologise to you. We are going to call you later. For now we are still having our meeting,&rdquo; Bhasikiti told reporters. But the irate supporters accused Bhasikiti of trying to mask the party&rsquo;s problems and challenged him on why he was turning away journalists when he was the one who had invited them for the briefing. &ldquo;Why did he invite journalists to come here in the first place? ... We want to elect the president. Takazviramba kwaMai (former vice president Joice) Mujuru tichiti vaakuita zvechi-thug. Ndizvo zvavava kuita (They are behaving in the same thuggish and unacceptable manner which happened under Mujuru&rsquo;s leadership). &ldquo;Bhasikiti is trying to impose a leader on us and we don&rsquo;t want that. We need to go to a congress and elect a leader of our choice,&rdquo; said one angry supporter who declined to be named. Bhasikiti later phoned journalists to announce the party&rsquo;s new interim leadership. &ldquo;We have agreed that Mutambara becomes the interim president and he will manage the affairs of the party in association with the steering committee. &ldquo;We have also resolved that Gumbo and Mutasa remain advisors, but with no dealings in the day-to-day affairs of the party, while Jabulani Sibanda will be in charge of the commissariat department. Munacho Mutezo will be secretary for finance,&rdquo; he said. Until yesterday, ZPF did not have a leader following the highly-publicised fallout between Mujuru on one hand, and Gumbo and Mutasa on the other, which led to a nasty split in February. In that stunning development, Mujuru later announced that he had fired Gumbo, Mutasa and five other high-ranking officials over a slew of allegations which included claims that the stalwarts were Zanu PF spies. &ldquo;Having done extensive consultation within the rank and file of the party and also in my capacity as the president with the executive authority to ensure its wellbeing, I hereby announce the expulsion of the following members from Zimbabwe People First with immediate effect: Rugare Gumbo, Didymus Mutasa, Margaret Dongo, Kudakwashe Bhasikiti, Luckson Kandemiri, Munacho Mutezo and Claudious Makova. &ldquo;We assure Zimbabweans that more heads are going to roll in this revolutionary exercise. We remain committed to the democratisation of Zimbabwe. We remain committed to a coalition of progressive forces to fight and remove Zanu PF from office,&rdquo; she said. But before the dust had settled down on the staggering development, Gumbo and Mutasa held their own press conference later in the day where they also announced Mujuru&rsquo;s summary expulsion from the party. Mujuru eventually left the party to launch her own outfit, the National People&rsquo;s Party (NPP), which last week signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai ahead of the make-or-break 2018 elections.