
	HARARE - Zimbabwean musicians have been invited to take part in the AfriMusic Song Contest which seeks to spotlight the best songwriters on the continent. 
	The ultimate winner of the continental music contest will receive show tickets, flights and accommodation to attend the Eurovision Song Contest taking place in Lisbon Portugal on May 12 next year. 
	To be eligible for the contest,artistes are required to enter up to three original songs which had not been commercially released before this year. 
	  
	AfriMusic Song Contest managing director Michelle Fernandes told  the Daily News  that Zimbabwe will only be considered  if at least two songs from the country are entered in the competition which will accept entries upto January 5 next year. 
	“In order for a country to qualify for the national selections there needs to be a minimum of two songs from the country. 
	“If Zimbabwe has more than one artiste, the country will go through. If there is only one  artist but the artist enters two or more songs then the country will still go through,” said the South Africa-based Fernandes. 
	She added that all submitted songs will vetted to ensure that they comply with the set rules. “The rules can be found on www.afrimusicsongcontest.com. A panel of judges will also listen to all the songs and will vote for their favourite songs from each qualifying country. 
	“There will be a selection of up to 20 people that will be selected from each country to compete in the national selections,” Fernandes told  the Daily News, adding that the selected songs will then be uploaded on AfriMusic Song Contest digital platforms after the national selections. 
	“The public from each country will then have the opportunity to vote for their favourite song. The winning song in each country will go through to the finals where the artiste will compete against all other winning artistes from each participating country.For the finals, the public again will vote for their favourite song.” 
	For both the national selection process and finals, public votes and votes from an adjudication panel will contribute 50% each in the determination of the winner. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
