
	HARARE – Industry minister Mike Bimha has said the application of standards leads to the production of internationally-accepted goods and services as well as remove barriers to trade. 
	Addressing guests at the 2017 National Annual Quality Awards (Naqa) hosted by the Standards Association of Zimbabwe (Saz) on Tuesday evening, Bimha said the removal of trade barriers allowed organisations to access international markets and export their products and services. 
	 
	Mike Bimha 
	“My ministry recognises that standardisation is an integral aspect of regional growth and globalisation, as it is an important tool for trade. 
	“The application of standards leads to the production of goods and delivery of services that meet internationally-accepted standards,” he said. 
	According to Bimha, standards offer market-driven solutions that capture current good practice and we encourage their use throughout our economy. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“Standards are, therefore, an important tool for achieving sustainable economic development and growth. 
	“There is need for increased awareness and widespread application of standards by Zimbabwean companies in order to enhance the overall economy of the African continent in general and our region in particular," he said. 
	Saz director general Eve Gadzikwa said Naqa will go beyond thephysical shield or certificate but creates new opportunities for organisations. 
	“Once a company or an individual receives a Naqa, it is no surprise that the award will open many doors and will elevate your organisation to a global market,” Gadzikwa said. 
	The Naqa winners will have an opportunity to participate at the Southern African Development Community (Sadc) level that was approved in 2009 by the organisation’s committee of ministers of Trade and Industry. 
	The Sadc quality awards will be held next year in South Africa during the Sadc TBT cooperation structures meeting in March. 
	The Sadc quality awards ceremony is held every year to coincide with the general meetings of the Sadc coordinating structures, where heads of quality institutions of all of the Sadc member states come together to conduct their business in support of harmonising standards, measurements and technical regulations in order to continually work towards a region free from unnecessary trade barriers. 
	 