HARARE - The Council of Veterinary Surgeons of Zimbabwe (CVSZ) has warned citizens to be on the lookout for bogus veterinary surgeons who are practising under the names of registered veterinary surgeons. Most were neither qualified nor registered with the CVSZ. This was putting animal lives at risk by performing procedures that they are not qualified to carry out. CVSZ on Sunday red-flagged Chitungwiza Veterinary Surgery as one of the surgeries operating illegally. &ldquo;Chitungwiza Veterinary Surgery situated at 2138 Unit A Seke, Chitungwiza, whose owner is Romeo Munzeiwa is an illegal veterinary facility that is being operated contrary to the veterinary surgeons regulations, Statutory Instrument 277 of 1998,&rdquo; the council warned in a notice on Sunday. &ldquo;Members of the public make use of the facility at their own risk and council will not entertain any correspondence or claims.&rdquo; Munzeiwa said he was failing to comply with the CVSZ&rsquo;s requirements. &ldquo;I recently graduated from the University of Zimbabwe, a lot of my peers have left the country because of high unemployment and are in South Africa. The few of us left are trying to be entrepreneurs but we are being punished. &ldquo;As it is, we have to pay an annual registration fee of $150, but not many of the recent graduates can afford, consequently they are not on the council&rsquo;s register. Employers require that registration before giving you a job. We asked that the amount be reduced but that plea fell on deaf ears. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have lawyers to represent us, so some of our concerns don&rsquo;t go anywhere. I have since closed the surgery and now do veterinary consultancy,&rdquo; Munzeiwa told the Daily News. Munzeiwa said he used to assist an average of five clients a week within the dormitory town of Chitungwiza, whose population is living on the fringes of poverty and cannot afford to take their domesticated animals to a veterinary surgeon. CVSZ also cautioned the public from enlisting the services of four other bogus veterinary surgeons (names withheld). &ldquo;These persons have been impersonating registered veterinary surgeons through their activities such as carrying out dog vaccinations and certifications, veterinary consultations and running of illegal veterinary mobile clinics mainly in Harare and Chitungwiza,&rdquo; the CVSZ said.