HARARE - While local radio stations will be the conduit for delivering political parties&rsquo; campaign messages ahead of the 2018 elections as they have a wider reach, there are others who feel most of the prominent stations are closely linked to the state and ruling Zanu PF party. Analysts and observers are skeptical because Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC), which has four radio stations, and Zimpapers &mdash; with two radio stations (Star FM and Diamond FM) &mdash; all belong to the State while AB Communications owned by ICT minister Supa Mandiwanzira has three stations (ZiFM Stereo, Faya FM and Gogogoi FM).&nbsp; Kingstons Trading, another State enterprise, operates Nyaminyami FM in Kariba and KE 100.4 FM in Harare. With elections around the corner, will these radio stations give equal space to contesting political parties as espoused in the Constitution of Zimbabwe? Zimpapers Group Public Relations and Corporate Affairs manager Beatrice Tonhodzayi said the Broadcasting Services Act clearly states that all political parties must be given equal opportunities when it comes to election advertising. Zimpapers owns a national and a regional station; Star FM and Diamond FM respectively. &ldquo;Our radio stations are guided by the law when it comes to election advertising. However; this kicks in only when the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) has communicated the political parties that are participating in an election and when they declare the election dates. Thus; we shall stand guided. &ldquo;On the issue of censorship, the law, according to the Broadcasting Services Act, says that we may not edit or alter any advertisement submitted for transmission. &ldquo;However, it is important to note that the Broadcasting Services Act also allows room for stations to reject advertisements provided reasons are given. &ldquo;This is key; because; as a business, we have our own policies that guide us in terms of what we air and what we do not. That means we can use our discretion around political advertising as we do with all other advertisements,&rdquo; said Tonhodzayi. ZiFM stereo executive Susan Makore concurred: &ldquo;The guidelines are clear from Zec and during election period they guide broadcasters on how to conduct advertising during election. Broadcasters are guided by that.&rdquo; The Daily News spoke to a number of analysts on important radio was to shaping the 2018 election. Media practitioner Tabani Moyo said Zimbabwe; by its construct, is a radio nation as it is the most accessible medium of communication in the country. &ldquo;This is mainly because of its cost effective nature. However, we are equally aware of the balance of forces in terms of ownership and how it might compromise impartial reporting ahead of the elections. &ldquo;However, given the fact that the bulk of the stations are commercial in outlook, they must think sustainability and avoid the trap of focusing on narrow political reportage,&rdquo; said Moyo. He added though that the most profound is that State-owned radio stations have a constitutional obligation to be impartial, fair and give equal access to all political parties.