HARARE - After independence in 1980, Zimbabwe woke up to one curious and catastrophic event commonly referred to as Gukurahundi which according President Robert Mugabe was a &ldquo;moment of madness&rdquo;. This was after security agents allegedly discovered arms caches at farms owned by Joshua Nkomo&rsquo;s Zapu in 1982 which led to a massacre later termed Gukurahundi where 20 000 people were killed in Nkomo&rsquo;s home area, Matabeleland. Out of this chaos, blood, anguish and ashes emerged the unparalleled statesmanship and leadership of Nkomo, famously known as Father Zimbabwe. The man swallowed any political or ideological differences he might have had with his opposite number in Zanu and the result was Zanu PF, a political vehicle made up of Zanu and Zapu. This move quenched the fires of death and suffering that had consumed Matabeleland and Midlands for almost half a decade. As a result, a high priest of Zimbabwe was born. While Joshua Mqabuko Nyongolo Nkomo could have been 100 years today, could he be in agreement with the way the country is being run, the corruption, unemployment and factionalism tearing political parties in Zimbabwe? Political analyst Maxwell Saungweme said: &ldquo;I remember Nkomo as a gentle giant who was not parochial. He was inclusive and not tribal. His demise was a huge loss to Zimbabwe. &ldquo;He would not have taken the rot happening here. Nkomo would not take the corruption and mediocrity in Zimbabwe&rsquo;s administration.&rdquo; Analyst Vivid Gwede said he remembers Nkomo as the founding nationalist leader in Zimbabwe. &ldquo;Clearly, he wouldn&rsquo;t have agreed to the way the country is being run today. He did express his concern long back in his speech at the funeral of Lookout Masuku that there is a lot of fear, disharmony, exclusion and hatred being promoted in this country. &ldquo;As shown by the case of Econet&rsquo;s licensing, he was not suspicious of local business people. He wanted to promote local entrepreneurs not to fight them. Nkomo was more caring than he was cunning, which are the hallmarks of a true statesman,&rdquo; said Gwede. Political commentator Blessing Vava said: &ldquo;Obviously Nkomo would be a bitter man with the state of affairs currently. He was a unifying figure in our politics who was above any form of discrimination, he saw Zimbabweans not Ndebeles or Shonas. Media practitioner Nhlanhla Ngwenya said: &ldquo;I know my parents were ardent Zapu supporters and they would take us to his rallies as little kids. Then we didn&rsquo;t know what the fuss was all about. &ldquo;But it later dawned on us that there was some low level war against their idol when one day they woke up in the middle of the night in 1983 and burnt their Zapu regalia as well as music by the LMK Choir. &ldquo;They told us those materials were a sure death warrant if found on them. The hate for Zanu and its leader was sown in us since then. &ldquo;But I can hardly say I had an occasion that I encountered the man in person, up until I attended his burial in Harare in 1999. That would be my first and am sure last time I will attend the Heroes Acre.&rdquo; MDC spokesperson Obert Gutu said: &ldquo;I have stated it before and I will repeat it here and now that Nkomo was the best founding president that Zimbabwe never had. Nkomo must be turning in his grave right now considering the political and socio-economic rot that is engulfing Zimbabwe. &ldquo;This is definitely not the Zimbabwe that Nkomo and his fellow departed nationalists would have wished to have. &ldquo;The country has been privatised into a Robert Mugabe (Private)| Limited with Mugabe as the sole and majority shareholder. Mugabe is like an emperor; an absolute monarch. He has totally and utterly failed to build a Zimbabwe that is democratic and progressive. &ldquo;Zimbabwe is now a fascist totalitarian State that is being run by an illegitimate, intolerant and rabidly corrupt Zanu PF regime. This is the very antithesis of what Joshua Nkomo would have wished for his beloved motherland.&rdquo; Media practitioner Nigel Nyamutumbu said: &ldquo;Zimbabwe certainly misses the leadership and wise counsel of long time human right defenders in the mould of Nkomo. &ldquo;There is no way Father Zimbabwe, who all his life was a firm believer of justice would have remained quiet in light of the political and socio-economic injustices obtaining in the country at the moment. &ldquo;As a proponent of media freedom, I certainly remember the role he played in opening up the telecommunications sector and ensuring State monopoly is broken.&rdquo; Zimbabwe Partnership of Prosperity leader Blessing Kasiyamhuru said he urges us all to be students of Nkomo. &ldquo;If his values echo in our hearts, and his clouds of honour remain on our minds, we can enter the Promised Land of a just and equal society.&rdquo; &ldquo;I had an opportunity of being part of his memorial lecture on ethical leadership at Wits University two weeks ago, speaker after speaker they all spoke of a great man.