HARARE - The Warriors renew their rivalry with Swaziland when the two sides clash in the Cosafa Castle Cup this evening at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium, Rustenburg in South Africa. Kick-off is at 7:30pm. This is the first time Zimbabwe will be playing in the knockout stages of the competition since they were knocked out in the preliminary rounds in the previous two editions. Sunday Chidzambwa&rsquo;s side booked a date with Swaziland after they topped Group B following wins over Mozambique (4-0) and Seychelles (6-0) while drawing with Madagascar (0-0). However, in Sihlangu, Zimbabwe will meet a familiar opponent they have clashed with in recent years. The two teams were in the same qualifying group for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations with Zimbabwe having the upper hand. The first meeting between the two ended in a 1-1 draw at the Somhlolo Stadium in Lobamba, Swaziland in March last year. However, the reverse fixture finished in an emphatic 4-0 win for the Warriors at the National Sports Stadium. Having scored five goals already in the group stages, Zimbabwe captain Ovidy Karuru is looking forward to continue with his good form. &ldquo;Now we have to focus on the next game against Swaziland, we have to be ready for them because we have played three matches, they are still fresh but it doesn&rsquo;t matter we are ready for them,&rdquo; Karuru said after the win over Seychelles. Meanwhile, in the early quarter-final on today, South Africa coach Stuart Baxter is likely to give a raft of players their international debuts against Tanzania. Bafana Bafana have a date with their East African guests as they begin the defence of the regional title they won last year in Namibia, seeking to become the first country to lift the trophy five times. Tanzania sneaked through Group A on goal difference after Thursday&rsquo;s 1-1 draw against Mauritius, having previously beaten Malawi and drawn against Angola. It will be a first clash between the two countries since 2011, when then Bafana coach Pitso Mosimane took an experimental line-up to Dar-es-Salaam for a friendly.