HARARE - The MDC has said it is engaging the African Union (AU) and Sadc to ensure that next year&rsquo;s elections are free and fair. This comes as several concerns have been raised over the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec)&rsquo;s capacity to conduct a free and fair poll, outside the influence of President Robert Mugabe&rsquo;s ruling party &mdash; Zanu PF. &ldquo;The MDC is always engaging all stakeholders, including regional&hellip;bodies such as Sadc and the AU. &ldquo;We can assure Zimbabweans that we have got our eyes firmly on the ball and we are monitoring each and every move that is being made by Zec,&rdquo; MDC spokesperson Obert Gutu told the Daily News this week. &ldquo;The people of Zimbabwe are demanding and in fact, they do deserve a free and fair election to be held next year. &ldquo;There is broad national consensus around the need to ensure that the 2018 elections are credible and free from contestation,&rdquo; he added, without giving further details on the engagements. Several opposition parties have raised the red flag, claiming Zec is compromised and cannot conduct a proper election process that is free and fair. The major concern has been the presence of military personnel in the electoral body&rsquo;s secretariat. The Morgan Tsvangirai-led MDC &mdash; the biggest opposition political party in Zimbabwe &mdash; has accused Zanu PF of influencing Zec ahead of the 2018 polls. &ldquo;We are acutely aware of the fact that the Zanu PF regime is already sensing a crushing and humiliating defeat in next year&rsquo;s elections and as such, they are trying to influence Zec to make it extremely difficult for most people to register to vote. &ldquo;It is trite that dictatorships thrive on voter apathy as well as on voter demotivation and intimidation. &ldquo;The MDC will not allow Zec to unconstitutionally usurp the right of all eligible Zimbabweans to register as voters,&rdquo; it said recently. Gutu, however, without disclosing the strategies that they are using to ensure that there will be a free and fair election, said the move to achieve the goal is work in progress. &ldquo;Some of the things that we are doing are of a very strategic nature and as such, we can&rsquo;t disclose everything&hellip; in the public domain. Sometimes, quiet diplomacy is more effective than megaphone diplomacy,&rdquo; he said. MDC&rsquo;s concerns come on the back of legal experts saying the mooted electronic voter register under the biometric voter registration (BVR) system is illegal.