HARARE - Yadah FC coach Jairos Tapera is hoping his side can build momentum from Tuesday&rsquo;s win over CAPS United when they face Highlanders in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon. Tapera endured a frustrating month of June in which his side lost three times and drew once before the win over Makepekepe. Goals from defender Jimmy Dzingai and midfielder Munyaradzi Chiwara helped the Harare-based side secure the win. That victory took Yadah to 13th place on the log table with 16 points after 15 matches and Tapera has told his charges that they need to keep that momentum. &ldquo;I think the win was very important. I think this is the turning point for us. The boys needed the confidence to kick-start our campaign,&rdquo; Tapera said. &ldquo;Beating the champions of Zimbabwe is no mean achievement and I think it brings that self-belief to the boys that they can face anyone. &ldquo;We were just unlucky in our previous matches and we were fortunate in that the turning point was against CAPS United. &ldquo;To those who have been following us they will testify that we were not playing badly but we were just unlucky not to win. I am sure this win will shape us and give us the much-needed confidence and push us to do even better going forward.&rdquo; Yadah have been boosted by the arrival of defender Dennis Dauda, who joined after being shown the exit door by CAPS United. Dauda was forced out of the champions for allegedly fixing the team&rsquo;s 2-0 defeat to Yadah on Tuesday. The former ZPC Kariba player trained with the team last week and could be in line to make his debut this afternoon after the two clubs agreed on a fee believed to be around $30 000. On the other hand Highlanders are desperate to bounce back to winning ways following last weekend&rsquo;s goalless draw against How Mine. Bosso know they cannot afford to keep on dropping points if they entertain any hopes of mounting a serious title challenge. Highlanders have not been convincing in their business this term as they are sixth on the log table with 25 points from 15 matches having managed seven wins, four draws and four defeats. Bosso coach Erol Akbay recently blamed his strikers for failing to deliver. &ldquo;I was expecting my strikers to score lots of goals but this is not happening,&rdquo; Akbay said. &ldquo;Even if you play good football and you are not scoring, then you are not doing your job; you are nothing. &ldquo;Honestly, the strikeforce has let me down, they have disappointed but the rest of the team; the midfield and the defence, I can&rsquo;t complain.&rdquo; Elsewhere, Harare City will be hoping to continue with their revival when they host Hwange at Morris Depot this afternoon. The Sunshine Boys have been on a revival since the arrival of Philani Ncube, who replaced Mike Madzivanyika. Ncube has since guided the team up the log table to 11th place with 17 points. Another win today could be a big step towards the team&rsquo;s fight for survival. &nbsp;