HARARE - Zimbabwe cricket convenor of selectors Tatenda Taibu said adapting to the way the Sri Lankans play will be crucial when the two team teams lock horns in the third One Day International (ODI) match in Hambantota today. The five match ODI series is tied at 1-1 following a victory each by either side in the first two games played in Galle last week. Zimbabwe drew first blood winning the opening match by six wickets chasing down 316 runs to register a memorable and historical first ever win against Sri Lanka in their backyard. Batsman Solomon Mire also reached his milestone as he got his maiden ODI century when he top scored for Zimbabwe with 112 runs. Sri Lanka crawled back in the series with a seven wicket win in the second match after restricting the visitors to a paltry score of 155 runs inside 33.4 overs. The heroes in that match being debutant 19 year old spinner Wanidu Hasaranga who picked a hat-trick in his third over becoming only the third bowler in history after Taijul Islam of Bangladesh and South Africa&rsquo;s Kagiso Rabada to bag a hat-trick on debut. In addition to having become the third bowler to take a hat-trick on ODI debut on Sunday, Harasanga became the first Sri Lankan spinner to claim a hat-trick in the format. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s hot and humid, turning slower wicket and their (Sri Lanka) bowlers adapted well to our sweeping game plan. What I&rsquo;m sure we will do is be proactive in having an adaption to their adaption,&rdquo; Taibu told the Daily News from Hambantota, Sri Lanka yesterday. &ldquo;Everything is all good and in place from what I have seen thus far, Chatara (injured pace bowler) isn&rsquo;t out, he will be assessed tomorrow morning (today) so the balance of the team revolves around that.&rdquo; The ground at Hambantota last hosted international matches in 2015 and both sides got into today&rsquo;s match pretty much on the same level in terms of their knowledge of the conditions although Sri Lanka will always feel at home by virtue of being the natives. Zimbabwe captain Graeme Cremer hopes to capitalise on this aspect. &ldquo;Yes definitely, we will be on a level playing field with them, and the boys are confident for tomorrow (today) good session today (yesterday), and boys are in high spirits,&rdquo; Cremer told the Daily News.