HARARE - The Harare City Council (HCC) has secured funds to construct three clinics in Harare, as the growing population has overwhelmed the capital&rsquo;s existing health facilities. Acting town clerk Josephine Ncube said the money was accessed from ZimHealth &mdash; under Private, Public Partnerships &mdash; but did not disclose the amount. She said of the three, one would be the city hospital, which was long overdue, adding that they were also going to engage Old Mutual to build for them and they would repay them through revenue collections. Harare has 12 polyclinics, 15 satellite clinics, four dental clinics and two infectious diseases hospitals &mdash; Wilkins and Beatrice. &ldquo;Looking at current resources, we have made a target of constructing three more clinics by 2018 and the third one will be the city hospital. &ldquo;We need to make sure that we upscale the skills we already have,&rdquo; Ncube said during a pre-opening assessment tour of Mabvuku Polyclinic last week. &ldquo;We are working with other skilled personnel such as surgeons from other places, but we want as much as possible to have the core within the city. Some of our doctors have already gone for refresher courses,&rdquo; she said. Harare mayor Bernard Manyenyeni added that council can easily provide 80 percent of all social services that central government provides. &ldquo;We proved that we are capable of handling crises, particularly the typhoid outbreak, showing that the city health department is well equipped in terms of personnel and resources,&rdquo; he said. HCC health services director Prosper Chonzi said land for the district hospitals has already been identified with one of the facilities being located in Harare South near Stoneridge. The health services director said the clinics required should be located in Highfield, Kuwadzana and Hatcliffe to cater for the city&rsquo;s outward expansion. He said to cater for the residents&rsquo; health needs HCC has also applied for more staff from the human resources committee while also looking for seconded staff coming from the ministry. &ldquo;The clinics&rsquo; strategic locations in the peripheries of Harare would be easier for residents in areas such as Hopley, Hatcliffe extension and settlements that are growing out of Harare to access. HCC has 17 doctors who are not always stationed at polyclinics but because of some services being offered there is a need for two doctors to man a facility,&rdquo; Chonzi said. Chonzi said because of the growing population, service had also grown together with changing disease profiles.