BULAWAYO - With giants, Dynamos and Highlanders set to clash in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday, the tension-filled encounter is already talk of town. Whenever these two hugely-followed clubs collide, expectations from both sides of fans are always high. Dynamos Bulawayo Chapter Supporters Association acting chairperson Walter Taranhike said they do not fear Highlanders as they were expecting to collect maximum points. &ldquo;As Dynamos supporters, we are taking this match like any other; what is at stake are three points as usual and of course the pride that goes along with beating Highlanders at Barbourfields,&rdquo; Taranhike told the Daily News. &ldquo;Mpilo End will be the place to be and we have composed new songs for our new look team and everything looks new including our coach&rsquo;s attire; one just needs to be at the stadium early to avoid hassles.&rdquo; Taranhike urged the match officials going to be appointed to handle the game to be impartial since perceived biased refereeing decisions often trigger violent clashes in the terraces between the rival fans. &ldquo;As usual we will engage our Bosso counterparts for a peaceful match,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are going to beat Highlanders 1-0 and the Cameroonian (Christian) Ntouba will carry the day for us.&rdquo; On the other hand, Hearts and Soul Highlanders Supporters chairperson Peacot Hadebe said Sunday&rsquo;s match will be the best game of the season thus far. &ldquo;We love watching our team but the most beautiful moment is when we play that blue and white team from Harare,&rdquo; Hadebe said. &ldquo;At Bosso, winning a championship without beating Dynamos back to back is meaningless. All we want is to beat Dynamos then the rest is history.&rdquo; On the issue of violence at the stadium, Hadebe said: &ldquo;This is something that we have always discouraged as an executive. As a result we are scheduled to have a meeting with the executive where one of our major concerns is violence.&rdquo; Most of the clashes between Dynamos and Highlanders at Barbourfields in the past have been marred by violence, leading to serious injuries to spectators and in even sometimes death. But just like Taranhike, Hadebe feels that referees have normally influenced some of the ugly incidents due to poor officiating. Hadebe predicted a 2 -1 win in favour of his team arguing that they have a stronger side than DeMbare. &ldquo;We are just going to continue from where we left off last season and we will just beat them. I can assure you goals are going to come from their former boy Roderick Mutuma and Simon Munawa,&rdquo; he said. Weekend PSL fixtures Saturday How Mine v FC Platinum (Barbourfields, SS 1PM), Bulawayo City v Black Rhinos (Barbourfields, SS 3PM), ZPC Kariba v Tsholotsho (Nyamhunga), Yadah FC v Chicken Inn (NSS) Sunday Hwange v Triangle (Colliery), Shabanie Mine v Chapungu (Maglas), Harare City v Ngezi Platinum (Morris Depot), Highlanders v Dynamos (Barbourfields, SS)