ALEXANDRIA &ndash; As CAPS United play Egyptian giants Zamalek tonight, coach Lloyd Chitembwe has one eye on what awaits him back home. The Makepekepe gaffer feels his side is being hard done due to a punishing fixture schedule released by the Premier Soccer League (PSL). United have to play catch-up on the domestic scene owing to their participation in the African Champions League. After returning from Egypt, United will have to travel a round distance of almost 800km when they travel to Nyamhunga Stadium to face ZPC Kariba next Thursday. Before even taking a breather, United will be back on the road, just four days later, for another 870km round trip to Bulawayo to face Chicken Inn. This means United will clock almost 2 000km on the road inside just three days before they host USM Alger in the Champions League on Wednesday May 24. &ldquo;There are important games coming as you know next week, we will be playing a very, very congested fixture programme and it&rsquo;s ridiculous how people come up with such a fixture,&rdquo; an irate Chitembwe said yesterday. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s like we are paying a price for being successful. I thought people were going to be very sensible and respect the fact that we are representing the nation not only CAPS United. &ldquo;Imagine we are going to play four games in a space of 14 days, it&rsquo;s not practical; it&rsquo;s not logical and we begin to wonder if people are really making football decisions . . . It&rsquo;s like we are paying a price for being successful. I thought people were going to be sensible and respect the fact that we are representing the nation not only CAPS United. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s ridiculous how people came up with such a fixture.&rdquo; Chitembwe urged the league to be considerate of the miles his players are clocking up when they arrange the fixtures. &ldquo;We are saying why not respect for our Champions League matches? We are playing USM Alger next week but we are being forced to play a league match on Sunday away in Bulawayo for that matter,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s where my question is coming as to why would you want to have a weak CAPS United team competing in the league, why not have the best team competing? Obviously we would not risk some of these players in a Sunday fixture when we have a Champions League fixture coming. &ldquo;If I had the power I would cancel CAPS United&rsquo;s weekend match so that they can field their strongest team possible against Alger. It&rsquo;s very disappointing but all the same we will try and work something out.&rdquo;