LONDON - I am still on a high from the recent &ldquo;international Facebook live double album release&rdquo; of Tytan &ldquo;The One&rdquo; and Adrian Tate. The duo, for me, totally stands out from all the other &ldquo;pretenders&rdquo; thanks to great vibes, and an effortless command of creativity. Having only encountered their music recently, I sat with my heart full taking in the experience of stunning song-writing and vocals.&nbsp; As an album launch, this was something truly unique and special. It was an excellent evening of music and storytelling in my own setting, no fills &mdash; just raw talent. Both albums have been on regular rotation, with each new listen leading to the discovery of a new favourite. I was particularly taken in by the existence of multiple music genres in both albums. This makes it greatly accessible in this age where global relevance is essential. As a creative, I understand the work that is put into a product that has the intention of going international. Music is the same as the fashion industry, it is flooded, but you have to create an undisputed reputation &mdash; with a product that speaks for itself.&nbsp;&nbsp; Tytan and Adrian both have in my opinion done justice to their talents. A track I&rsquo;ve grown particularly fond of and I am sure is sending many women on a frenzy is by Tytan Ndipe Mwoyo. I was taken aback by this track on first hearing it recently on one of the boys late night &ldquo;chill out sessions&rdquo; on Facebook. As a deep thinker, it is a reflective piece which is lyrically superb and I found that I appreciated it even more after hearing the polished final piece. Tytan is a musician of expression and articulately arranges his thoughts in a breathtakingly simple way.&nbsp; He has one of those voices which once you hear it, can belong to no-one else. By his own admission &mdash; he always seeks to tell a story with his music. Well Tytan you have outdone yourself with this masterpiece, and I hope that it will not only create conversations in global Zimbabwean communities and beyond, but also create a sense of pride for the Zim music industry. The evolution of music from my time as a teenager has birthed great artists like Tate, an accomplished self-taught musician who contributes significantly to both albums. Young Adrian proves that versatility is the only game that will restructure Zimbabwean music. The highlight of Tate&rsquo;s album for me is Pakura which is an upbeat and uplifting jam. It offers a balance of crazy instrument production and great lyrics which convey love and dating in present times. His high quality voice projects genuine emotions. Of the 16 tracks that make up both albums collectively, the last track on Tytan&rsquo;s album Zvawada, which features Tate, highlights the ability of both musicians to put their vulnerability on full display, a rare skill that only a few musicians can express. More respect to the executive producer of both albums, Kuda Musasiwa, also known as Begotten Sun, who has demonstrated an ability not only to put together two amazing artistes but to also bring out such well-balanced work showcasing the magnitude of his value in the local music industry. * Pam Samasuwo-Nyawiri is a cultural journalist and multi-award-winning handbag designer based in the United Kingdom.