MUTARE - Shabanie Mine forward Farai Mupasiri is hoping for a good welcome from the Dynamos fans when he turns out for the Chinda Boys at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. Mupasiri was once a darling of the Glamour Boys when he burst onto the scene in the 2012 season. At that point, the former Lomagundi student had the world at his feet as he quickly established himself as a one of the leading strikers on the domestic scene. However, just like other talented young players before him, Mupasiri somehow lost his way and was no longer setting the scene alight like he used to. Mupasiri is now reinventing himself at Shabanie this season where he has already shown the attributes that made him a household name before. &ldquo;I believe I&rsquo;m going to get a good reception. I was once a fan&rsquo;s favourite and I believe I still am. &ldquo;I know they miss me; there is no bad blood between me and the club so I hope the fans won&rsquo;t give me any stick,&rdquo; Mupasiri said of the DeMbare supporters.&nbsp; &ldquo;If you remember, this is the team that made (Farai) Mupasiri so I am what I am because of Dynamos and it is my home.&rdquo; The Glamour Boys are wobbling at the moment and come into today&rsquo;s game off a defeat to another newly-promoted side Black Rhinos in midweek. Mupasiri is confident that Shabanie, who have never won against the Glamour Boys in Harare, can cause an upset. &ldquo;We are going to face a huge challenge, Dynamos is a big institution, so we need to fight hard as a unit,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I know history doesn&rsquo;t favour us playing Dynamos in Harare but we are going to try to overturn that. &ldquo;I know for a fact that in the Dynamos camp things are not well, so they will come hard at us and try to win so as to appease their fans but we just need to be geared up and I believe as a team we are ready for the challenge.&rdquo; Shabanie are currently in ninth place on the log and have already achieved some memorable results against defending champions CAPS United and Highlanders already. &ldquo;Remember when we went to play Highlanders at Barbourfields no-one gave us a chance but we came out with a win,&rdquo; Mupasiri said. Today Ngezi v ZPC Kariba (Baobab), Dynamos v Shabanie Mine (NSS), Triangle v How Mine (Gibbo), Black Rhinos v Hwange (Morris Depot)