HARARE - A total of 14 horses have been confirmed for this year&rsquo;s OK Grand Challenge main race during yesterday&rsquo;s final acceptance ceremony held at Borrowdale Race Course. Comanche Brave headlines a list of runners for this Grade 2 race which will be run over 1 800m at Borrowdale Race Course on June 3 with a purse of $40 000. The four-year-old Kahal gelding will come to this year&rsquo;s event as one of the favourites following victory at this year&rsquo;s Castle Tankard which was held earlier this month. Comanche Brave will, however, face stiff competition from other runners like the top-rated Mathematician from trainer Bridget Stidolph&rsquo;s stable. Mathematician has been drawn to start from lane 13 and comes into the race with a top weight of 60kg with Calvin Habib holding the irons. Last year&rsquo;s runner-up, Windigo, will be hoping to go one step better this year and land the top prize. Jockey Brendon McNaughton guided Duffi&rsquo;s Call from Stidolph&rsquo;s yard to win the race last year but will not be available this time around to defend her title. Mashonaland Turf Club chief executive officer Clever Mushangwe said: &ldquo;The connection between the OK Grand Challenge and horse racing is founded and built upon horsemen&rsquo;s tradition of racing horses and placing bets on the totalizator. &ldquo;The high adrenalin that engulfs the punters as races playout and the ultimate thrill and relief experienced as wagered bets turn into winners can draw parallels with the Shop Gallop and win concept. &ldquo;This connection is also simulated in the fusion of a great OK shopping, experience, the thrill of horse racing, the stakes and the exceptional promotional prices on offer. &ldquo;We are indebted to OK Zimbabwe directors and management for their continued trust and investment into the sport of horse racing. The unveiling of the 2017 OK Grand Challenge field sets the stage for the running of this great race. &ldquo;We recognise that the $40 000 stake money comes at such a time our economy is in the doldrums and therefore is a confirmation of the value of this brand of sport entrepreneurship.&rdquo; The OK Grand Challenge horse race was first held in 1988 and this year promises to be another spectacle and greatest race ever. OK Grand Challenge Main Race: Mathematician, Road To Dubai, Windigo, Ashton Park, Comanche Brave, Royal Honour, Eurakilon, Super Good, Life Is Good, Wylde Style, Fah Fee, Newton Power, Cool Solution, Roman Discent.