HARARE - South Africa-based gospel musician Alpha &ldquo;Makoti&rdquo; Nhambure&nbsp;has dropped a new single titled Nguva Yapera. The just-released single is part of 36-year-old&rsquo;s strategy to promote her forthcoming album. &ldquo;Nguva Yapera will be part of my next album which I will release within the next two months. I am sure the song will get people on the dance floor and at the same time remind them to take heed of the word of God,&rdquo; Nhambure said. The gospel songstress, who is a civil engineer by profession, is confident that the single will make people better prepared to resist the devil. &ldquo;It warns people of the approaching end times, it tells them to be prepared, alert, sober and vigilant as the devil is prowling around like a roaring lion ready to devour,&rdquo; she said. Unlike her previous songs, Nguva Yapera has a very strong mbira beat. &ldquo;I want to contribute in changing the mentality of gospel music fans to traditional mbira music. Sadly, the majority of our people see this type of music as a way of ushering in the spirits of our ancestors (vadzimu nemashavi). &ldquo;If mbira music can effectively invite the spirits of our ancestors, then it should even have an even stronger power to usher in the Holy Spirit of God into people&rsquo;s lives, hearts and minds when sung with gospel lyrics,&rdquo; Nhambure said, adding that she is determined to be associated with gospel music&nbsp; rooted in Zimbabwe&rsquo;s culture. &ldquo;If people can relate easily to mbira, then it will be easy for them to receive the Holy Spirit and relate to God. It is against this background that I have decided to create music which strongly relates to the people of Zimbabwe, music which carries our own identity and which I am convinced will bring us as a people even closer to God,&rdquo; she said. The 36-year-old artiste&rsquo;s previous albums are The Alpha (2014), Muzita Rashe (2015) and Vanotigarira Dare (2016) on which she employed diverse music genres Afro-jazz; mhande and sungura. Apart from music, the mother of two is also a poet and also runs an events management company in the country.