BULAWAYO - True to his word, Highlanders coach Erol Akbay fielded a largely changed side in the 2-1 win over Bantu Rovers in a Castle Lager Premiership yesterday. With the result, Bosso moved into fourth place on the log with 17 points from eight matches and now trail leaders FC Platinum by a single point. After two consecutive goalless draws against struggling sides Chapungu and Harare City, the Dutchman said he would tinker with his side to get the desired results. Regular starters including captain Rahman Kutsanzira, Prince Dube, Roderick Mutuma, Allen Gahadzikwa, Tendai Ndlovu and Simon Munawa were all dropped from the starting line up. [GoggleAd] In came King Nadolo, Gabriel Nyoni, Ralph Matema, Tendai Ngulube and Benson Phiri. Bosso&rsquo;s new signings Kalunga Tambwe and Yves Esisa Ebabali both from the Democratic Republic of Congo all started as well. In the end, a goal in each half by Nadolo and substitute Dube were all Bosso needed to beat Bantu, who had taken an early lead through an own goal by defender Peter Muduhwa. After the match, Akbay, who had looked irritated in his recent press conferences, could afford a smile. &ldquo;First half we played good football. We had problems dealing with the counter attacks. We had a lot of chances in the first and second half and we could have scored way more than the two goals that we scored,&rdquo; Akbay said. &ldquo;The three points were more important for us but we could have scored more goals. The good thing about the players who don&rsquo;t usually play, they give everything they have. &ldquo;Today my players gave everything and its good. That will add competition in the team.&rdquo; Bantu Rovers were the first to score 10 minutes into the match after Highlanders defender Muduhwa beat his own goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda. Muduhwa was trying to deal with a dangerous cross from Obriel Chirinda. Bosso were not behind for long though as Nadolo restored parity four minutes later when the Bantu defence failed to deal effectively with a corner kick. First, Matema rose high to head goalwards and his effort was parried back into play by the home side&rsquo;s goalkeeper Notice Dube. With the entire Rovers defence ball watching, Nadolo had all the time to pounce on the loose ball to equalise for Bosso. At the stroke of halftime, Bantu had a penalty appeal turned down by referee Nkosana Nduna. Muduhwa was at the centre of the action again when he appeared to have fouled Chirwa inside the box but Nduna waved play on. In the second half, Bosso increased their tempo as they searched for a winner with Akbay introducing Brian Banda, Dube and Adrian Silla. Akbay&rsquo;s side were clearly in total control of the game after the substitutions and it was no surprise when they surged ahead in the 64th minute. Dube got to the end of a Matema flick before outpacing the Rovers defender Shadreck Nyahwa. The Bosso forward then slid his shot past Notice Dube to score what proved to be the winning goal. After falling behind for the first time in the game, Bantu tried hard to find an equaliser but they could not breach the Bosso defence. After the match, Rovers manager Agent Sawu was happy with the performance of his side despite the loss. &ldquo;We are disappointed by the result. As for the performance of the boys everything went on well. We conceded the second goal through a lapse in concentration,&rdquo; Sawu said. &ldquo;We played and managed to score which is good but we have to keep our back door shut to win matches.&rdquo; Teams Bantu Rovers: Notice Dube, Kudzaishe Dzingwe, Jileni Nsingo, Munyaradzi Chitambwe,&nbsp; Dumisani Ndlovu,&nbsp; Shadreck Nyahwa, Lucky Ndlela, Bukhosi Sibanda, Gladman Bharibhari (McCarthy Dube 58m), Michael Kutsanzira (Mbonisi Ncube 70m), Obriel Chirinda (Newman Sianchali 46m) Highlanders: Ariel Sibanda, Bukhosi Ncube, King Nadolo&nbsp; (Adrian Silla 68m), Tambwe Kalunga (Prince Dube 57m), Yves Ebabali, Peter Muduhwa, Tendai Ngulube, Honest Moyo, Gabriel Nyoni (Brian Banda 57m), Benson Phiri, Ralph Matema.