HARARE - Luke Masomere is considered to be one of the most experienced football coaches in the country but sadly the well-travelled gaffer remains nowhere near the sport he loves so much. Instead, while still feeling a little pang of regret at no longer being involved in the game, the self-proclaimed &ldquo;Doctor of Football&rdquo; is quietly building his portfolio as a businessman in the mining sector. Masomere, who won the league title with AmaZulu in 2003, admitted that earnings from football alone were not able to provide a comfortable lifestyle for his family. However, he hopes to build an empire in the mining sector which will remain viable for many years to come. &ldquo;I felt I needed to secure my future first as well as of my family and that&rsquo;s why I decided to venture into mining full-time,&rdquo; Masomere, who is now based in Shurugwi, told the Daily News on Sunday. &ldquo;Let us be frank to each other my friend; we all go to work to earn a decent living but you can&rsquo;t keep on going somewhere (football) where you know there is nothing for you in return. &ldquo;So I had to make a decision and after consultations with my family, we agreed this is what we needed at the moment. Good life is nice but you can&rsquo;t have it without money.&rdquo; Masomere, whose last premiership job was with relegated Border Strikers last season, still misses the day-to-day pressure associated with being a football coach and the adrenaline rush which comes while on the touchline during matchdays. But one thing which makes him content with the decision he has made is the meagre salaries local coaches are paid for such a high-pressure job. &ldquo;I miss football really, I miss being on the touchline but am not missing the money though,&rdquo; the former Dynamos, Masvingo and CAPS United coach said. &ldquo;I hope one day I will come back but I need to ensure I have a stable business. I want to come back to football for the passion not for the money. &ldquo;For your own information there were actually two teams who inquired about me recently but I made it clear to them about my vision. When the right time comes you will surely see me coming back to football.&rdquo; Masomere, who was forced to close his college in Zvishavane due to the harsh economic environment, said he is currently not even in touch with the local game but hopes to start attending matches soon. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m yet to attend any league match this season. I am really seized with my work. I even learnt recently that there are now 18 teams in the league,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I need to be on the ground in most cases. It&rsquo;s a growing business, for now I only have two claims. But I am not complaining at all.&rdquo; Masomere added: &ldquo;I have been in the game for a long time and I almost won everything and maybe I need to look at my CV to tell you everything. So for me I think I have served football really well and I have no regrets at all.&rdquo;