HARARE - Using data from 5,6 million people, Facebook researchers recently revealed that certain jobs parents have, including being a nurse, scientist or lawyer, increase the chances of their children following in their footsteps. But for budding songstress, Ashleigh Angel &ldquo;Shashl&rdquo; Moyo, whose father is a medical doctor by profession and is the chief executive officer at Chitungwiza Central Hospital, &ldquo;it is about personal choice and proving to your parents that you are passionate about what you want to become&rdquo;. Shashl, who recently released her debut single titled No More, told the Daily News on Sunday that she didn&rsquo;t find it difficult to convince her father that she was more passionate about being an artiste than a medical professional. &ldquo;It is not like I was not good enough at school but my parents realised when I was still nine years old that I was really passionate about music. Since I was consistent in pursuit of a musical career, they had no option but to support me,&rdquo; Shashl said adding that &ldquo;maybe they would have stopped me if I had shown signs of being confused about what I really wanted&rdquo;. The 18-year-old artiste, who composes songs largely based on personal experiences, is delighted by the way her single, produced by former Soul Afrika member, Adrian Tate, is attracting airplay at some radio stations in the United Kingdom. She believes she has what it takes to make it on the international stage. &ldquo;I appreciate that music locally is a difficult career to pursue especially my genre which is not so much followed so I intend to relocate to the US in the not too distant future. &ldquo;I want to be a fulltime musician but I also like the medical profession and hope to be a doctor. &rdquo; she told the Daily News on Sunday. Though her role model is American singer Madilyn Bailey, the former Dominican Convent pupil, who can play several musical instruments, also keenly follows local artiste like Jah Prayzah and Zino Irema hit maker Takura Bernard Shonhai. &ldquo;Takura and Jah Prayzah are unique in that they are themselves,&rdquo; the rookie singer said. The songstress traces the beginning of her musical journey to Hellenics Academy where she learnt to play the guitar as a primary school kid.