HARARE - After the cancellation of the Harare derby last week, local football fans are in store for a blockbuster Castle Lager Premiership match when Highlanders host Dynamos at Barbourfields Stadium today. There is no love lost between these two eternal rivals of Zimbabwean football, with the fixture whenever they meet, a highlight of the domestic Premiership. However, all the attention in today&rsquo;s match will be centred on Bosso striker Roderick Mutuma since this is his first league match against his former paymasters. Mutuma had been a thorn in the flesh of Highlanders during his days at DeMbare and it was never envisaged that he might one day switch allegiance. Football is a crazy sport with Mutuma quickly turning into a cult hero with the Bosso fans ever since his move there at the start of the season. The Bosso striker says he is not going to be overawed by the situation this afternoon as he wants to ensure his side gets maximum points. &ldquo;There is no doubt that this is a big game, it&rsquo;s the big one that everyone has been talking about all week,&rdquo; Mutuma said. &ldquo;The good thing about me though is that I&rsquo;m now used to the pressure of playing in such big games. &ldquo;I have played in many big games before with Dynamos in the past and for me there is not much difference.&rdquo; With fellow forward Prince Dube injured, Mutuma is expected to lead the Bosso frontline and there is no doubt his former teammates will target him. In order to psyche up his main striker, Highlanders coach Erol Akbay earlier this week advised Mutuma to be focused on the game and nothing else. &ldquo;I hope he is going to play a very good football because he knows every weakness of this team, he knows every player in the team,&rdquo; the Dutchman said. &ldquo;So, for him it is a more emotional game but what I would like to say to him is he should simply focus on his own game, failure to do that he can&rsquo;t play very well.&rdquo; Bosso come into this match hoping to reclaim top spot on the log after they were dislodged by ZPC Kariba yesterday. &ldquo;We have to win on Sunday (today) to make sure we stay on top and also to beat Dynamos is important because we are Highlanders. It is exciting for both sides therefore I can&rsquo;t wait for the encounter,&rdquo; Akbay said. &ldquo;The fact that we played them in the Independence Trophy means we can now make tactical decisions for them and we are ready for that.&rdquo; On the other hand, DeMbare are after an all out win this afternoon as they sit in 12th place on the log just one point off the last relegation spot. DeMbare beat Yadah FC 1-0 in their last league match and were inactive last weekend following the cancellation of their match against CAPS United. Today Hwange v Triangle (Colliery), Shabanie Mine v Chapungu (Maglas), Harare City v Ngezi Platinum (Morris Depot), Highlanders v Dynamos (Barbourfields, SS)