HARARE - The Norton mayoress is asking a judge for a restraining order to block voluble legislator Temba Mliswa from interfering with council business amid allegations he is pursuing a tribal agenda against a municipality dominated by Masvingo office bearers. Precious Mufahore said in court filings on Tuesday that Mliswa must be barred from getting anywhere near the town&rsquo;s council offices. In an interview with the Daily News yesterday, Mufahore said they were flabbergasted by the crusade against their council, and alleged the legislator was pursuing a tribal agenda because the Norton Municipal Council was overwhelmingly dominated by office bearers from Masvingo. She insisted the fight in Norton has taken a tribal dimension, effectively pursued by a Zezuru, a powerful sub-group within the majority Shona tribe &mdash; which comprises 70 percent of the population &mdash; against the Karanga sub-group. But Mliswa said yesterday: &ldquo;I am Karanga and we have a press conference tomorrow (today) at Media Centre and will respond to this.&rdquo; This comes amid an extraordinary weeks-long exchange between the Independent Norton legislator and the mayoress, with the later forced to go to the courts to stop Mliswa from &ldquo;harassing and threatening&rdquo; councillors. And in an emotion-tinged outburst, Mufahore insisted that the targeting of her council by Mliswa was part of his long-term strategy to sideline and terrorise the Karanga tribe. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t know why he is raising a war against us, hatisi kuziva, hatina mhosva naye, kana patakatadza. Mhosva ndeyeyi (we have no gripes with him, what&rsquo;s the problem)? Is he fighting our council because the majority of councillors and those in management are from Masvingo?&rdquo; she asked rhetorically. Mufahore &mdash; a Karanga &mdash; said Mliswa was bitter about the ascendancy of Karangas to top positions within the Norton council. She said they had to seek a restraining order to stop the abuse by the legislator &ldquo;We need protection because it&rsquo;s too much. &ldquo;Our security is at risk. He shouldn&rsquo;t come to our offices; councillors must be free to do meetings without disruptions by Mliswa. &ldquo;If a councillor calls a meeting, he also convenes a meeting at the same venue; he burns misika oti i (market stalls and blames the) council. Tashaya kuti mhosva ndeyei (We don&rsquo;t know what his problem is)?&rdquo; She said Mliswa probably has a grudge against the current Norton municipal leadership because its female-dominated as there are seven female councillors and six men. Former Norton chief executive officer, Winslow Muyambi, said from the ongoing fight, he got a sense that the legislator did not understand his terms of reference. &ldquo;From my experience, Legislators don&rsquo;t understand their role. They want to supervise mayors, chairperson or council,&rdquo; he told the Daily News yesterday. &ldquo;The other problem is that legislators operate on allegations and rumours, I sensed that when I saw the Galloway story,&rdquo; he said, referring to the Zimbabwe Amalgamated Housing Association (Zaha)&rsquo;s Galloway housing project, that Mliswa claims has swindled home seekers, but Mufahore has said was above board according to the rules and regulations. Muyambi said: &ldquo;Did he (Mliswa) go to council offices to establish the truth about that project, the ministry (of Local Government), the surveyor-general, Deeds office, did he look at the subdivision permits? Zvimwe zvinokonzerwa nekusaziva (Some of this is caused by ignorance). He must check procedures.&rdquo;