HARARE - Black Rhinos coach Stanford &ldquo;Stix&rdquo; Mutizwa was taken by surprise after watching his side canter to victory against Harare giants Dynamos in a Castle Lager Premiership match on Thursday evening. Chauya Chipembere were full value for their 1-0 win under floodlights at the National Sports Stadium which saw them move into second place on the log table with 17 points, one behind log leaders ZPC Kariba after eight rounds of action. The army side were the better side for almost the entire match and could have gone on to score more goals had they been clinical in front of goal. However, a solitary Lot Chiwunga strike was enough to hand Rhinos maximum points. It was, however, their complete dominance over the record Zimbabwe champions that surprised Mutizwa. &ldquo;We have played much tougher teams so far teams like FC Platinum, Chicken Inn among others but this Dynamos side actually surprised me,&rdquo; Mutizwa said. &ldquo;Maybe we were expecting a lot from them but I don&rsquo;t think they were as strong as other teams that we played previously. But it&rsquo;s also understandable they are going through a transition of re-building which needs time. &rdquo; Despite the positive start to the 2017 season, Mutizwa insists their target is to survive relegation as they are not getting carried away by the current position on the log. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m very happy with the maximum points. The boys are getting better with each game,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Beating Dynamos, one of the biggest teams in the country, is a huge achievement for us. I hope we will keep the momentum going forward. For us the target is to survive relegation as quickly as possible, anything else will be a bonus. &ldquo;We should not get carried away by the good start, we need to keep our heads high and stay focused. If we keep on progressing like this who knows where we would be at the end of the season?&rdquo; Black Rhinos will be hoping to maintain their positive start when they host Hwange in their next league match at Morris Depot tomorrow.