HARARE - Gallery Delta will host an exhibition of paintings, graphics and three-dimensional object sculptures by young and promising artists on Wednesday. The exhibition dubbed &mdash; Link III: Different Viewpoints Exhibition &mdash; will showcase works by Epheas Maposa, Kresiah Mkwazhi, Option Nyahunzvi, Evans Tinashe and Johnson Zuze whose masterpiece &ldquo;The Dog and the Bone&rdquo; landed on the 2015 National Arts Merit Awards (Nama) Outstanding Mixed Media category. The exhibition, to be officially opened by the ambassador of Switzerland to Zimbabwe, Ruth Huber, will run until mid-June. Last year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition featured works by Misheck Masamvu, Shepherd Mahufe,&nbsp; Lovemore Kambudzi and&nbsp; Munyaradzi Mugorosa. Gallery Delta, which was established in 1975, is one of the few remaining art galleries in the country promoting on a big scale contemporary painting, graphics, ceramics and mixed media sculpture. In the last two decades, the gallery has uncovered talented artists such as the late Luis Meque, Richard Mudariki who is now settled and exhibiting in Cape Town, Masamvu who has exhibited at Goodman Gallery in Johannesburg, Cape Town and at the Sao Paulo Biennale,Virginia Chihota who is exhibiting in London and Gareth Nyandoro, winner of the &ldquo;Emerging Voices&rdquo; competition sponsored by the Oppenheimer Foundation. Despite the success it has registered over the years, it is currently facing serious viability challenges due to declining sales. In a previous interview, Gallery Delta founder Derreck Huggins told the Daily News that it could be shut down unless it received some aid. &ldquo;Gallery Delta is suffering a paucity of sales in the midst of the economic crisis and the new era of bond notes. This is so much so that closure at the beginning of the new year looms ominously unless patronage, sponsorship, donations or benefaction of approximately $50 000 per annum can be found. &ldquo;After 42 years of operation, this is a sad reflection of the state-of-the-nation and the economy and bodes severely for art and the arts. If anyone is willing and able to contribute to the continuation of Gallery Delta and its work and exhibition programme for 2017 they can be provided with banking details or make cash donations,&rdquo; he said then.