HARARE - Something has got to give when Intercity Rugby League (ICL) table-toping sides Matabeleland Warriors and Old Georgians meet at Police Grounds this afternoon. After three rounds of action, the two sides remain unbeaten with Mat Warriors in first place with 15 points. OGs are in second place on the log with 14 points and the Groombridge-based side are leaving no stone unturned in their search for a victory this afternoon.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &ldquo;Our objective is to win, and in order to do that we have placed a lot of emphasis and work into applying the processes and respecting the work put into the process of winning. No opposition can be taken lightly when you value your end goal,&rdquo; OGs coach Grant Mitchell told the Daily News. &ldquo;We have worked hard at ensuring that the entire squad is collectively strong from a technical perspective, game management perspective and importantly a mental perspective. &ldquo;We haven&rsquo;t played Mat Warriors in a number of seasons and so we have little knowledge of them from a technical point. We can only invest time and effort into doing what we do well.&rdquo; Due to various reasons, OGs have been forced to make a number of changes to their side that beat Harare Sports Club last weekend. In the forwards, the changes were made in the back row where captain Kinsley Lang returns to the starting XV at eighthman replacing Jacques Leitao. Leitao moves to blindside flank while Scott Young will play on the openside with Sean Chigumbura, who was in that position last week not in the team this time around. In the backline, Boyd Rouse, who was at centre last week, will start at flyhalf as he replaces Lenience Tambwera. Craig Elcombe moved from fullback to take the place vacated by Rouse while Tafadzwa Mukonyora comes into the team to play at fullback. Mat Warriors team manger Theodore Weale said they are coming to Harare confident of maintaining their perfect start to the 2017 season. &ldquo;Tomorrow (today) it is going to be a big encounter. We have proved ourselves to be the kings of rugby in Bulawayo and they (OGs) have also proved to be the best team in Harare,&rdquo; Weale told the Daily News. &ldquo;It will be the ultimate barometer to test which team is going to win the title and get a chance of representing the country in this year&rsquo;s gold cup in South Africa. &ldquo;We have got a lot of positives coming into this game. We were inactive last week and the boys got a good time to rest. &ldquo;This week, we have had good numbers in training and our coaches have a game plan in place that we think is going to work. I can say that everything is going ahead as planned.&rdquo; In other matches taking place this afternoon, Police Defenders will take on Harare Sports Club in the later kick-off at Police Grounds. There are two matches at Hartsfield in Bulawayo where Highlanders take on Gweru Sports Club in the early kick-off followed by the match between Old Miltonians and Old Hararians. In Manicaland, Mutare Sports Club are at home to Bulldogs. ICL Fixtures Today: Mutare SC v Bulldogs (Mutare, 3pm), Highlanders v Gweru SC (Hartsfield, 2pm), Old Miltonians v Old Hararians (Hartsfield, 3:30pm), Old Georgians v Mat Warriors (Police Grounds, 2pm), Police Defenders v Harare SC (Police Grounds, 3:30pm)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;