BULAWAYO - FC Platinum moved into second place on the Castle Lager Premiership log with a slender 1-0 victory over Chicken Inn yesterday. The visitors&rsquo; forward Agrippa Murimba scored in the second half to condemn the Gamecocks to a third home defeat on the trot. Chicken Inn had lost to Black Rhinos and How Mine in their previous two home matches all played at Luveve Stadium. In a bid to arrest their poor home form, the Gamecocks had shifted yesterday&rsquo;s match to White City hoping it might bring a change of luck. However, the change of venue did not bring the desired results and even their coach Rahman Gumbo refused to talk to the media after the match. In the end, it was his assistant coach Julius Ndlovu who filled up for him and he claimed that Gumbo was suffering from a sore throat. &ldquo;We had our chances and we failed to score but FC platinum had their chance and they scored. Our boys tried to play but unfortunately we could not score,&rdquo; Ndlovu said. On the poor run at home, Ndlovu said: &ldquo;The boys are lacking that winning mentality that we can always do it at home like we do on our away games.&rdquo; With Platinum&rsquo;s head coach Norman Mapeza away in Turkey for his reunion at his old club Galatasary, assistant coach Lizwe Sweswe was in charge of the miners yesterday. &ldquo;It was a really tough game; we did not play better in the first half but we spoke to the players during the half time and told them to knock the ball around and be patient and when the chances avail themselves utilise,&rdquo; Sweswe said. There was not much action in the first half as both sides failed to conjure up any clear chances. FC Platinum returned from the break a better team with Murimba forcing the Gamecocks goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze into a fine save with a powerful shot parried for a corner. Chicken Inn&rsquo;s first chance fell to Obadiah Tarumbwa but he took long to shoot inside the visitors&rsquo; box before he was closed down. At the other end, Talent Chawapiwa set up Murimba and again Chipezeze came to his side&rsquo;s rescue. The FC Platinum forward finally got it right in the 74th minute when he netted the opening goal after a good exchange of passes with Chawapiwa. Today ZPC Kariba v CAPS United (Nyamhunga) Dynamos v Black Rhinos (NSS, 7pm)