HARARE - Hamilton Masakadza scored a century to help Zimbabwe A beat Canada by 70 runs during the third and final one-day game yesterday to secure a 3-0 series whitewash. Zimbabwe A had won the other two matches by two wickets and 78 run respectively against the Associate nation. Yesterday, Hamilton scored 146 from 131 deliveries to help Zimbabwe A reach a total of 310 for six from 50 overs. Canada could only reach 240 for nine in their chase as they could not score frequently at the required rate to surpass the hosts&rsquo; total. Although the century was not against a Test-playing national, Hamilton was pleased with the way he went about on the crease. His knock included 20 boundaries and one maximum before he was dismissed by Mark Montfort in the 44th over.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s obviously a little bit easier when you play against lesser opposition, you get a few more balls to hit,&rdquo; Masakadza said. &ldquo;At at the end of the day, a 100 is a 100; you still have to go out there to apply yourself and make sure you get there.&rdquo; After winning the toss, Zimbabwe A captain Sikanda Raza chose to bat first with opener&nbsp; Solomon Mire (11) losing his wicket cheaply. Opener Innocent Kaia (41) then combined with Hamilton for a second wicket partnership worth 101 runs. Raza (9) and PJ Moor (7) were all dismissed cheaply before another 83-run crucial fifth wicket partnership between Hamilton and Malcolm Waller. Tino Mutombodzi (22) and Graeme Cremer (9) saw out the innings as the hosts crossed 300. Rizwan Cheema and Cecil Pervez picked up two wickets apiece for Canada while Junaid Siddiqui and Montfort claimed one wicket each. Just like in the second match, the Canada top order was getting good start but they were not able to convert them into big scores. Opener Nitish Kumar was just nine runs short of his fourth List-A half century before he was bowled out by Raza. Only middle order batsman Vuran Sehdev provided some resistance when he finished unbeaten on 58. Raza was the pick of the Zimbabwe A bowlers with figures of 3/37 from nine overs while Mire had figures of 2/25 from four overs. Wellington Masakadza, Chris Mpofu, Donald Tiripano and Malcolm Waller all picked up a wicket each.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;