BULAWAYO - Former Industry minister Nkosana Moyo has hinted at challenging President Robert Mugabe in the forthcoming 2018 election, as an independent candidate. The former banker &mdash; famed for publicly speaking out against attacks on businesses and factories by war veterans and later uncharacteristically resigning from Mugabe&rsquo;s Cabinet about a year after his appointment &mdash; said there was need for a paradigm shift in the country&rsquo;s politics. He recently turned down two separate offers by the Dumiso Dabengwa-led Zapu and Zimbabwe People First (ZPF) to lead the opposition outfits. &ldquo;When you look at the facts on the ground and beyond just Zimbabwe like sub-Saharan Africa, you notice there is one thing common in all our countries, the government of the day runs the country for the party and not for the citizens,&rdquo; Moyo told journalists here on the side-lines of National Youth Development Trust (NYDT) public debate on Wednesday. &ldquo;The government of the day runs the country for the benefit of party members as opposed to the benefit of all citizens,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;My view is that if I get involved in politics, I am going to run as an independent because when you think about it, what type of a president do you want? You want a president who has got responsibility and accepts responsibility for all citizens and not for some citizens. &ldquo;A president is a president of a country not of a party. He or she should be capable of being a president even for those who did not vote for him or her. We don&rsquo;t seem to have that maturity,&rdquo; Moyo said. He said &ldquo;my own view and conclusion is that for the time being, we need to try the idea of citizens being persuaded to vote for somebody who does not belong to a party.&rdquo; Moyo said he was &ldquo;seriously considering standing as an independent candidate&rdquo;. On the other hand, Moyo explained why he resigned from Mugabe&rsquo;s Cabinet, a move that saw the miffed leader describe him as lacking the qualities of a real man. &ldquo;There are now 16 years since I left the Cabinet. And when I left, most people don&rsquo;t know that a day before, I spent about one and half hours with the president telling him I was resigning. The press said I resigned from South Africa, which is not true,&rdquo; he said. He further noted that he left because he was not prepared to be acculturated into the corrupt Zanu PF way of doing things. &ldquo;I left because I realised that what I believed in the rest of the team didn&rsquo;t believe in. I left because I did not view my job as an opportunity to loot money. Because I didn&rsquo;t believe that being a minister is about looting money but about serving the nation.&rdquo; Moyo said he was not a member of the ruling party when he was appointed minister, but was handpicked as a technocrat to give credence to the party&rsquo;s economic policies.