HARARE - Rising stars Andy Muridzo, Selmor Mtukudzi and Romeo Gasa are among scores of artistes who will feature in the inaugural Culture Week gig set for the Harare Gardens tomorrow. The free event, being organised by the Harare province of the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz), will also include Rute Mbangwa, Shinsoman, Kireni Zulu, Terry Africa, Hebert Mwana Wamambo, Reshon Murandu, Kessia Masona and Adequate Sounds. The gig tomorrow follows the official national launch of the Culture Week on Saturday at Nyava High School in Musana, Bindura Rural District which was officiated by Rural Development, Promotion and Preservation of National Culture and Heritage minister Abednico Ncube. According to Nacz Harare official, Oliver Chauke, Harare-based artistes have decided to be part of the week-long Culture Week commemorations. &ldquo;There will be two stages for artistes. In addition to three surprise guest artistes, we will also have 32 upcoming artistes at the Crossroads stage. &ldquo;People will also have a chance to witness several dance groups from universities, colleges and schools. There will also be a food fair; we have three surprise guest artistes,&rdquo; said Chauke. According to Nacz spokesperson Cathrine Mthombeni, the 2017 Culture Week commemorations will run throughout Zimbabwe from May 20 to 26. &ldquo;The national official Culture Week launch is a national event coordinated by Nacz running under the theme &lsquo;Consolidating Cultural Identity, Diversity and Heritage,&rsquo;&rdquo; said Mthombeni The week-long commemorations are held annually in line with the 2001 Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity by Unesco that proclaimed May 21 of each year as the World Day of Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development. According to Mthombeni, Nacz decided to celebrate for a week instead of day in order to accommodate more cultural activities. &ldquo;Nacz inaugurated Culture Week in 2002 after it discovered that one day was too short a period to leave an impact in people. &ldquo;In addition, artists found the one day not adequate to allow them to celebrate and display their works to the public,&rdquo; she said.