HARARE - Music star Jah Prayzah is currently in Kenya where he is collaborating with Mozambican star Mr Bow in the Coke Studio. The Sendekera singer and Mr Bow have been paired up in the Coke Studio to collaborate on a track as part of noncompetitive show initiated by the Coca-Cola Company to bring together, and showcase the diversity of African musical talent. Jah Prayzah&rsquo;s manager, Keen Mushapaidze, who is also in the East African country, said the Uzumba-born artiste was delighted to be part of the Coke Studio Africa family. &ldquo;We are honoured to be part of the African musical project spearheaded by Coca-Cola. They did it in South Africa before as well as Nigeria and Kenya &hellip; we are very excited to be a part of such massive works,&rdquo; Mushapaidze said, adding that Jah Prayzah was particularly pleased to have been afforded the chance to record with one of Mozambique&rsquo;s finest artistes. &ldquo;We got to know of his talents even more when we got here, so definitely it is a project that will see our music going to greater heights.&rdquo; Under the Coke Studio initiative, several continental collaborations have come about. The African artistes who did duets include AKA (South Africa) and Patoranking (Nigeria), Cassper Nyovest (South Africa) and Diamond Platnumz (Tanzania) as well as Nasty C (South Africa) and Buffalo Soulja (Zimbabwe). According to Vee Chibanda, Coca-Cola Zimbabwe brand manager, Coke Studio is determined to popularise African talent. &ldquo;Coke Studio is all about bringing African talent together to create fresh and interesting music. We have chosen some of Africa&rsquo;s best artistes and challenged them to use what makes them unique &mdash; their background, their nationality, their musical genre &mdash; and fuse it with someone else&rsquo;s. The product of which is something never been seen or heard before,&rdquo; Chibanda said. For Jah Prayzah, his duet with Mr Bow will feed into his strategy to boost his brand on the continent by collaborating and holding joint shows with some of Africa&rsquo;s best musicians. To date, Jah Prayzah has done duets with African music giants Mafikizolo, Diamond Platnumz and Tswana songstress Charma Gal. Last month, Jah Prayzah and Nigerian music star Davido announced plans to do a duet. The Watora Mari singer and the internationally-acclaimed Skelewu singer confirmed the impending duet on YouTube. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s going down Nigeria Zimbabwe, we are about to do something crazy...,&rdquo; Davido said with Jah Prayzah concurring.