HARARE - Zimbabwe&#39;s school football should adopt a tracking system to ensure players who excel at age-grade tournaments are monitored, National Association for Secondary School Heads (Nash) president Johnson Madhuku has said. &ldquo;As Nash we should have a database of such players and a tracking system to monitor the fruits of such sterling work,&rdquo; Madhuku said during the launch of the 2017 Copa Coca-Cola football extravaganza. This year&rsquo;s edition of the tournament in the boys&rsquo; section is set to adopt a new format as the organisers seek to conform to the international standards as outlined by Fifa. Over the years, the junior schoolboy football tournament has ran with the Under-16 age group for the boys and with effect from this year it will be limited to only Under-15 players. However, the girls&rsquo; section of the tournament will remain eligible for players in the Under-17 category. &ldquo;Nash is very excited by this year&rsquo;s introduction of the Under-15 age groups for the boys&rsquo; category,&rdquo; Madhuku said. &ldquo;These players are clearly Form One and Two students who have been given a much deserved opportunity to develop their skill and talent. &ldquo;My only appeal to my colleagues is that we should not rob these youngsters of their chance to play and develop by fielding over-aged players.&rdquo; Madhuku said vetting should be &ldquo;tough, thorough, strict but fair and transparent so that we have a credible tournament&rdquo;. Delta Sparkling Beverages general manager Moses Gambiza said participants now have a chance to play in the regional tournament, pencilled in for later this year. &ldquo;This development will see the youth sharing lots of experience and bridging the gap between those in different countries and continents,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We continue to be proud sponsors of this initiative which is an important, long term investment in our youth. &ldquo;We wish all the schools and teams that are vying for recognition in this tournament all the very best. &ldquo;We hope this year&rsquo;s tournament will be resounding success, one that makes all our stakeholders proud. &ldquo;The Nash-organised soccer tournament has made a mark on the lives of thousands of secondary school pupils, their families and communities throughout Zimbabwe over the years. &ldquo;It shows the lasting power of football and it reminds us of how far we have come. Indeed very successful road with so much to be proud of.&rdquo; The Copa Coca-Cola national finals will be held at Chipindura and Herman Germaine schools in Mashonaland Central between July 21 and 22.