GWERU - Harare&nbsp; City coach Mike Madzivanyika yesterday painted a gloomy picture of the state of affairs in the Sunshine Boys&rsquo; camp after another 1-0 defeat at the hands of fellow strugglers Chapungu. The Sunshine Boys now have only one win from nine matches and yesterday&rsquo;s result had Madzivanyika conceding they are in urgent need of strikers. Madzivanyika&rsquo;s side have only scored two goals in those nine matches which is the main reason why they are not picking up points. Yesterday, a solitary Tinei Chitora first half strike was all Chapungu needed to pick their first win of the season while leaving Madzivanyika&rsquo;s future hanging by a thread. After the game, the Sunshine Boys coach said: &ldquo;I think the strikers left their shooting boots at home today. This has been our case this season. We are not scoring goals and it&rsquo;s becoming very frustrating. &ldquo;I think we need to look for new strikers when the window period opens. That has been the case this season we are doing everything only to stutter up-front. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s now a really cause for concern. We really need to pick ourselves as soon as possible because we cannot continue like this.&rdquo; Harare City were never in the game as they failed to fashion out any clear cut chances for the entire 90 minutes. In fact, they were lucky to lose by a single goal after Chapungu created numerous scoring chances only to be let down by poor finishing. And for Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni, the win left him a relieved man as pressure was beginning to mount. &ldquo;Sometimes in life you need to be patient. Remember this is a process and it needs time,&rdquo; Chikuni said. &ldquo;From today&rsquo;s game you can actually tell that there is progress and its very encouraging. We now need to build on this win going forward.&rdquo; Chapungu looked the better side of the two teams knocking the ball around only to struggle in the final third. With some bit of luck and accuracy, the Air Force of Zimbabwe side could have scored more than two goals as City never showed an intent or zeal to win the match. Yesterday&rsquo;s win for Chapungu put them on seven points the same as Harare City after nine matches.