HARARE - Chinese Puzzle, a French comedy-drama, written directed by C&eacute;dric Klapisch, will be the main film tonight at the ongoing European Union (EU) Film Festival being hosted by The Theatre in the Park in Harare. The comedy drama, which was released in 2013, is about a 40-year-old father whose life becomes complicated when the mother of his two children moves to New York. Since he can&rsquo;t bear them growing up far away from him, he decides to move there as well. Also on show tonight will be a 2007 Romanian film &mdash; 4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days &mdash; written and directed Cristian Mungiu, which is about a woman who assists her friend in arranging an illegal abortion in 1980s Romania. The EU Film Festival, first ever to be held in Zimbabwe, kicked off on a high note on Tuesday thanks to the lively films Almanya (Germany) and Up and Down (Czech Republic). Yesterday, it was the turn of Green and Black (Portugal) and The great Beauty (Italy) to be screened at the film festival which will run until May 20. According to a statement from the EU Delegation to Zimbabwe, the film festival, where admission to all screenings is entirely free, will present film enthusiasts with vivid pictures of Europe&rsquo;s societies in their all-encompassing facets and cultures, a wide scope of stories that engage and pay tribute to the common traits of human nature. &ldquo;The diversity in narrative will take you from the sweeping streets of Rome, via excursions into Bolivia, New York and Turkey right into the quaint confines of an apartment in Prague and a depressing hotel room in Romania in the 1980s. &ldquo;You will meet illustrious and loveable (or less loveable) characters, such as Eddie the Eagle, little Finn who just lost his mother, control freak Erika, and money thief David, who tries to start a new life on the Azores. Eleven screenings, spread out across five days, provide more than 1 000 minutes of entertainment and food for thought,&rdquo; read part of the statement.