HARARE - Hard-working Tourism minister Walter Mzembi came agonisingly close to winning elections to become secretary-general of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) which were held in Madrid, Spain yesterday &mdash; before losing in the run-off. In the end, Zurab Pololikashvili of Georgia was elected to become the next UNWTO secretary-general, beating Mzembi by a mere three votes &mdash; and despite having lost to the Zimbabwean minister by a similar margin in the first round of voting. Pololikashvili will replace Taleb Rifai, a Jordanian who is stepping down at the end of the year after serving two five-year terms. In the first round of voting, Mzembi polled 11 votes to Pololikashvili&rsquo;s eight. But the little-known Georgian swept to the position after polling 18 votes to the Zimbabwean minister&rsquo;s 15 in the runoff. Speaking to the Daily News soon after the poll, a distraught Mzembi said he fully accepted the election result. &ldquo;I accept the verdict of the UNWTO&rsquo;s global membership. &ldquo;Of course, I am still reconciling this African loss but it has been an immense and immeasurable branding gain for Zimbabwe, Africa and indeed myself. &ldquo;I concede defeat and will continue working for global tourism with the same passion, energy and humility which I exercised during my campaign. The best man won and I pledge my support to him. &ldquo;To all my supporters and intercessors, the Lord has spoken loudly . . . next time, another opportunity, not this one!&nbsp; Thank you all and may God bless you immensely for your support,&rdquo; he said. No African has led the UNWTO since it came into being in 1975. However, international media reported yesterday that Mzembi had lost the vote due to his background as a Zanu PF politician. &ldquo;Zimbabwe&rsquo;s political reputation played a major role in the elections and he (Mzembi) simply could not gather the support from enough delegates from other continents to make his dream become reality. &ldquo;Whether this is right or wrong &mdash; I tend to believe Zimbabwe is wrongly bedevilled in the West and have often said so &mdash; it is a fact of life and a fact which must have been known and understood by a man of his intellect,&rdquo; Wolfgang Thome, a correspondent for global travel and tourism news portal eTN Africa said of Mzembi&rsquo;s loss. President Robert Mugabe and his Zanu PF government have a rocky relationship with the West, although Harare has lately been on a re-engagement mission with the developed world in a bid to normalise ties. The West accuses Mugabe&rsquo;s administration of gross human rights and property violations, following documented cases of state-sponsored violence against the opposition and the seizures of white-owned land 18 years ago.