HARARE - Dendera star Suluman Chimbetu, songbirds Ammara Brown and Hope Masike as well as Tehn Diamond and Josh Meck are part of more than 30 artistes scheduled to perform at the Miombo Magic Music Festival next weekend. The sixth edition of the festival, to be held in Christon Bank, Harare on May 27 to 28, will also feature folk singer Gemma Griffiths, Bulawayo house group Djembe Monks, rock musician Rob Burrell, Zimdancehall artiste Cello Culture, Soul Bone, Fiddelicious, Flying Bantu, Tribes Afro, Black Mamba Man and the Mackay Brothers. Miombo Magic Music Festival artistic director, Gus Le Breton, has promised non- stop music throughout the two days. &ldquo;There is going to be only one stage hence it will be one band after another; it will be music non- stop throughout the festival,&rdquo; Gus Le Breton said. The Miombo Magic artistic director added that they had gone out of their way to create the perfect sound for the festival. &ldquo;For this edition, we have set up a good sound system which will be manned by acoustic experts such as our own Vusa Moyo and we have also managed to persuade Keith Farquharson (the Ex-Ilanga band member who won the best South African Music Awards (Sama) gong for best sound engineer in 2011) just for this event,&rdquo; Le Breton said at a press conference held in Harare recently. As has become the norm at Miombo Magic, fans will have the option of either camping at the venue or shuttling back to town. &ldquo;Fans can come with tents or they can move to town and back as we have shuttle services from Christon Bank to Harare,&rdquo; he said. Due to the tough economic situation in the country, Miombo Magic organisers have decided to take a break next year. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have corporate sponsors, we have tried this year but we were not successful as it was tough &hellip; we have no sponsors... we encourage people to buy tickets so that the festival will continue running. &ldquo;As of now, we are happy with the response from music fans as we are only targeting 1 000 people. Next year, we are taking a break and the festival will resume in 2019,&rdquo; he said.