BULAWAYO - Highlnders hooligans masquerading as football fans forced the abandonment of their side&rsquo;s Castle Lager Premiership match against Dynamos yesterday in protest over what was a highly contentious Christian Ntouba goal that was allowed to stand by match officials. Bosso had taken a 24th minute lead through captain Rahman Kutsanzira but the match degenerated into total chaos when Ntouba equalised for the visitors. Television replays showed clearly that the DeMbare forward was in a clear offside position when he got to the end of a shot from Elisha Muroiwa that had deflected off a Highlanders defender. Far side assistant match official Thomas Kusosa did not raise his flag while referee Munyaradzi Majoni allowed the goal to stand. According to Law 11 of the Game, Ntouba gained advantage by playing a ball &ldquo;That rebounds, is deflected or is played to him from a deliberate save by an opponent having been in an offside position&rdquo;. The law clearly goes on to describe what is termed as a deliberate save &ldquo;A &lsquo;save&rsquo; is when a player stops a ball which is going into or very close to the goal with any part of the body except the hands (unless the goalkeeper is within the penalty area)&rdquo;. Going by this explanation from the International Football Association Board, yesterday&rsquo;s match officials should have disallowed Ntouba&rsquo;s goal since it was not a deliberate pass by the Bosso defender but a deliberate save. However, instead of allowing the match to go ahead, the unruly home supporters took the matter into their own hands when they started pelting the match officials with missiles from the Empakweni stand. Even the intervention of the police and the Highlanders marshals could not stop the chaos as more missiles rained from the terraces. At some point it appeared as if order had been restored with the match likely to go ahead but as soon as Kusosa tried to go back to his position the missiles started to come down again. This time around Bosso fans from the Soweto end invaded the pitch as police struggled to contain the chaos. After about 40 minutes of stoppage, the players from both camps retreated back into their dressing rooms as the match had to be called off. Match commissioner Edson Nkau confirmed that the match had been abandoned with both teams being informed of the decision. Luckily, there was no teargas fired by the police or violence of any sort reported as the two sets of fans swiftly left the venue without any further incidents. However, judging by precedence, the match is likely to be awarded to Dynamos since it was the Bosso fans, who caused the chaos that resulted in the abandonment of the match. Although the match officials had clearly erred in allowing the Dynamos goal to stand, Highlanders fans reacted in an uncouth manner and should not have taken the matter into their own hands as they should have allowed the match to go ahead. Now their team will face the full wrath of the Premier Soccer League as they are likely to lose points and fined heavily.