HARARE - The first ever European Union (EU) Film Festival in Zimbabwe begins tonight at The Theatre in the Park in Harare. Organised by the EU in partnership with 11 of its member States, the inaugural film festival, which will run until May 20, will screen an assortment of acclaimed films from across Europe. The festival will kick off with Almanya, the German award-winning tragicomedy that questions the sense of identity and belonging of Turkish immigrants and their descendants. The film reflects on the most pressing issues in current Europe: migration and integration. Throughout the five days of the festival, a minimum of two films will be screened every evening. Among other films, movie lovers can also look forward to the inspirational movie Eddie The Eagle, presented by the British Council on May 19. Inspired by true events, Eddie the Eagle &mdash; directed by Dexter Fletcher &mdash; is a feel-good story about Michael &ldquo;Eddie&rdquo; Edwards (Taron Egerton), an unlikely but courageous British ski-jumper who never stopped believing in himself &mdash; even as an entire nation was counting him out. With the help of a rebellious and charismatic coach (played by Hugh Jackman), Eddie takes on the establishment and wins the hearts of sports fans around the world by making an improbable and historic showing at the 1988 Calgary Winter Olympics. Eddie the Eagle stars Taron Egerton as Eddie, the lovable underdog with a never say die attitude. According to a statement by EU Delegation to Zimbabwe, the film festival will present film enthusiasts with vivid pictures of Europe&rsquo;s societies in their all-encompassing facets and cultures, a wide scope of stories that engage and pay tribute to the common traits of human nature. &ldquo;The diversity in narrative will take you from the sweeping streets of Rome, via excursions into Bolivia, New York and Turkey right into the quaint confines of an apartment in Prague and a depressing hotel room in Romania in the 1980s. &ldquo;You will meet illustrious and lovable (or less lovable) characters, such as Eddie the Eagle, little Finn who just lost his mother, control freak Erika, and money thief David, who tries to start a new life on the Azores. 11 screenings &mdash;spread out across five days &mdash; provide more than 1 000 minutes of entertainment and food for thought,&rdquo; read part of the statement.