HARARE - Eddington Hatitongwe, 35, who plays the role of Bhaureni on the ZBC-TV comedy, Muchaneta, says he is girl-shy on and off the acting stage. Though he insisted that he &ldquo;is not as confused as Bhaureni,&rdquo; he conceded that, just like Bhaureni, he has no girlfriend. &ldquo;I am single but am not searching. I am not planning to get married soon so there is no need for me to date someone because I want to concentrate on developing my artistic skills,&rdquo; Hatitongwe told the Daily News on Sunday, adding that dating would be a major distraction to his acting career. &ldquo;If one is not careful, ladies can affect one&rsquo;s work that is why I am not keen to get into such a situation. When the right time comes, I will make sure that I find someone who understands my principles and one who can separate me from the television characters that I play.&rdquo; Hatitongwe claimed that the absence of a girlfriend in his life was not because women find him unattractive. &ldquo;Thanks to Muchaneta I have become very popular. Whenever and wherever I move, fans continually ask to be photographed with me. I am always blocking ladies on social media who are always pestering me because they want to lure me into relationships,&rdquo; the rising actor said. Hatitongwe said he was inspired to take up acting by the late Safirio &ldquo;Mukadota&rdquo; Madzikatire, Gadzikwa &ldquo;Paraffin&rdquo; Mushangwe and Simon &ldquo;Mutirowafanza&rdquo; Shumba. He debuted on the acting stage in 2008 when he featured in the play Silent Words which was showcased at the Harare International Festival of the Arts (Hifa). &ldquo;The theatrical play opened doors of opportunities for me in the professional theatre world as I was more used to community theatre when I was growing up in Harare,&rdquo; Hatitongwe said. After performing at Hifa in 2008, the last born in a family of five joined Patsime Trust the following year as a field officer. &ldquo;With Patsime Trust, I did a number of plays with a focus on community development and these include New Dawn, Pfuma 1, 2 and 3 among others before I moved to work with the late Walter Muparutsa on a play called The Father. &ldquo;Later on I worked with Daves Guzha on the play Ten Bush which we also took to Hifa in 2014. Apart from these plays, I also featured on several short films,&rdquo; he said. Two years ago, Hatitongwe joined Nick Zemura&rsquo;s Mirazvo Productions, which produces the television dramas Muchaneta and the award-winning Muzita Rababa, as assistant director.