HARARE - South Africa-based gospel artiste Martha Shonhiwa says relocating to South Africa to pursue her music career is turning out to be an inspired decision. Shonhiwa, who is currently in Zimbabwe to promote her second album titled Grace, is increasingly getting more recognition on the local gospel music scene. &ldquo;Since I came back from South Africa to market my second album during Easter time, I have managed to hold several successful shows. &ldquo;I held shows at the Harare International Conference Centre (HICC), Mufakose, Epworth and Chitungwiza,&rdquo; said the upcoming songstress. She added that she has lined several high-profile shows. &ldquo;On May 25, I will share the stage with Togarepi Toggy Chivaviro at Anglican Cathedral and on June 3, I will perform alongside Sabastian Magacha, Leonard Zhakata and Tatenda Mahachi,&rdquo; Shonhiwa told the Daily News. Shonhiwa began her singing career in church before she became a vocalist for Chakanetsa Bandimba, whose song Jesu Dombo enjoyed extensive airplay on local radio stations. &ldquo;I started off singing in the Family of God Church, and since then I have never looked back. Back then, I was inspired by Family Singers, a group that was from our church. I relocated to South Africa largely because I was inspired by Rebecca Malope,&rdquo; she said. Shonhiwa recorded her debut album Ndauya Kuzomutenda in 2011 before dropping her second in March this year. The second album carries nine songs, Mighty God, Ebenezzer, My Life, Makanaka Jesu, All the Glory, Rapha, Reach Out, Ngobekezela and Alpha and Omega. On the just-released album Shonhiwa adopted the beat popularised by South African music star Dan Tshanda and Matshikos. &ldquo;It (the album) is inspired by my life experience, including what I went through when I recorded the album. It was not an easy journey because I lost my producer Lucky Lekuka before we finished recording the album. &ldquo;The album also speaks on how God has been faithful to my life, my family and everything,&rdquo; she said.