BULAWAYO - After lambasting his side for a pathetic display against Chapungu last weekend, Highlanders coach Erol Akbay wants an improved performance tomorrow against Dynamos. The Bulawayo giants hosts DeMbare at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow hoping to get back to winning ways following a goalless draw against Chapungu at Ascot Stadium last week. Akbay was so incensed by his players&rsquo; lack of desire as they failed to beat the Castle Lager Premiership&rsquo;s bottom team. Tomorrow, Bosso have to be at the top of their game because they have generally struggled to beat Dynamos in this fixture over the years. It was only last season, when Bosso enjoyed some success over the Harare giants when they completed a double over DeMbare. However, Akbay is fully aware that his side needs to be a bit more aggressive and clinical in front of goal tomorrow. &ldquo;We can never be over confident when playing against Dynamos because it&rsquo;s a big team and in such types of games if you choose a tactic sometimes it does not work. That&rsquo;s why I feel that we have to have a winning mentality at the end of the day,&rdquo; the Dutchman said. &ldquo;Last week it was not a good game at all, it was a very bad game. Our boys did it wrong tactically, I think it was not our day. But we have to focus our next game which is important when we playing Dynamos and everybody is looking forward to it.&rdquo; The draw last weekend denied Bosso a chance to stretch their lead at the top of the log standings by two points as they now on 13 points. Second-placed Ngezi Platinum and How Mine are also on 13 points. Akbay said in order for his team to maintain their top spot, they must win tomorrow&rsquo;s match at all costs to keep the chasing pack at bay. &ldquo;We have to win on Sunday to make sure that we stay on top and also to beat Dynamos it is important because we are Highlanders. It is exciting for both sides therefore I can&rsquo;t wait for the encounter,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The fact that we played them in the Independence Trophy it means we can now make tactical decisions for them and we are ready for that.&rdquo; Comparing the Dynamos he beat back-to-back last year in the Premiership to the one he faced in the Uhuru Cup, Akbay noted there was bit of improvement in their rival&rsquo;s game. &ldquo;The only difference is that they have three quick strikers something which was not there last year,&rdquo; Akbay said. &ldquo;Now they push the ball forward and they run behind the ball, this is now how they do. For us our defenders really have to be focused to contain them. Sometimes they can be dangerous if you have slow defenders.&rdquo; Bosso will be without injured forward Prince Dube, who has been ruled out for at least six weeks while Godknows Makaruse has to pass a late fitness test. This leaves former Dynamos forward Roderick Mutuma to lead the line for Bosso tomorrow and Akbay urged his player to remain focussed on the match. &ldquo;I hope he is going to play a very good football because he knows every weakness of this team, he knows every player in the team,&rdquo; the Dutchman said. &ldquo;So for him it is a more emotional game but what I would like to say to him is he should simply focus on his own game failure to do that he can&rsquo;t play very well.&rdquo;