BULAWAYO - Highlanders coach Erol Akbay wants better performances from his misfiring players when they take on Bantu Rovers at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon. The Bulawayo giants have drawn blanks in two of their last three matches against struggling sides Chapungu and Harare City which both finished in goalless draws. After both matches, the Dutchman was critical of his players and even admitted that they would not win the Castle Lager Premiership title if they continue to play with a lack of hunger for goals. Those two draws have seen Bosso drop from first place on the log to fifth with 14 points from seven matches. Facing a Bantu Rovers side that is third from the bottom this afternoon, Akbay promised to shake things up as he hopes his side can get back to winning ways. &ldquo;We have to take every team that we play against seriously, we have to make sure we collect points from&nbsp; teams at the bottom of the log,&rdquo; the Dutchman said. &ldquo;Not for them to think it&rsquo;s just a piece of cake but you can&rsquo;t say it&rsquo;s a piece of cake when you are not scoring. &ldquo;I think it&rsquo;s more about the attitude of players especially when they are playing teams at the bottom of the log. &ldquo;Sometimes a player feels that I cannot run an extra metre like they do when they are playing Dynamos, FC Platinum or CAPS United. &ldquo;Because you get a completely different side when playing these other teams which becomes difficult to start blaming this player or the other that&rsquo;s why I have decided to change the team completely.&rdquo; Akbay is confident that the new line-up he will field today can do a better job than what his regular players have done thus far. &ldquo;I know that our second team can play better because they are eager to win and they are hungrier to show everybody what they can do,&rdquo; he said. Meanwhile, Bantu Rovers forward Bukhosi Sibanda is confident they can get an upset against the Bulawayo giants this afternoon. Sibanda was named the league&rsquo;s April Player of the Month after netting seven goals thus far including a hat-trick in the 7-2 win over Yadah FC. &ldquo;Of course Highlanders is one of the biggest clubs in the country and we need to be at our best to pick a positive result,&rdquo; Sibanda said. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t really say there is any special plan for Highlanders but we are just going there to do what we have been doing. &ldquo;I have no specific target that I have set for myself but if the opportunity comes I would love to continue scoring those goals. Hopefully I would be able to utilise chances that come my way.&rdquo; PSL Fixtures Today: Chapungu v Harare City ( Ascot), Tsholotsho v Bulawayo City (Dulivhadzimu), Bantu Rovers v Highlanders (Barbourfields), FC Platinum v Yadah (Maglas) Tomorrow: Ngezi v ZPC Kariba (Baobab), Dynamos v Shabanie Mine (NSS), Triangle v How Mine (Gibbo), Black Rhinos v Hwange (Morris Depot)