ZVISHAVANE - FC Platinum shot to the top of the Castle Lager Premiership log after a comfortable 2-0 win over Yadah FC, who are fast becoming the division&rsquo;s whipping boys, at Mandava Stadium yesterday. This was the log leaders&rsquo; second win on the trot as they returned to their home ground which had been undergoing renovations in recent months. Pure Platinum Play are now on 19 points from nine matches, one ahead of second-placed ZPC Kariba, who travel to Baobab Stadium to face Ngezi Platinum Stars this afternoon. As for Yadah, their debut season in the top flight league is fast becoming a nightmare since it was their fourth defeat on the trot. It was also the first game for Yadah coach Jairos Tapera back on the dugout after his fallout with club owner Walter Magaya. FC Platinum secured maximum points courtesy of well-taken goals either side of the half by Gift Mbweti and Gerald Takwara. Mbweti scored his first goal for his new club since moving from Hwange when he punished the visitors in the seventh minute for some sloppy marking. After a good team build-up, Mbweti found himself one-on-one with Yadah keeper Tafadzwa Dube. The FC Platinum forward rounded off Dube before slotting home into an empty net to give his side the lead. Leroy Mavhunga could have levelled the scores three minutes later but failed to direct his effort goal wards with the home side&rsquo;s goalkeeper Petros Mhari scrambling. Mhari was the busier of the two keepers as the visitors continued to search for an equaliser with Mavhunga the focal point of all their attacks. However, despite Yadah dominating possession, the home side could have killed the game off three minutes after the interval but Hillary Bakacheza&rsquo;s screamer from inside the box was saved for a corner by Dube. The home side did not have to wait long for the second goal when Takwara scored with a blistering shot from 40 yards out that left Dube with no chance. Teams FC Platinum: Petros Mhari, Raphael Muduviwa, Elvis Moyo, Kelvin Moyo, Ian Nekati, Gerald Takwara, Simon Shoko, Rodwell Chinyengetere (Winston Mhango 76&rsquo;), Talent Chawapihwa, Agrippa Murimba (Charles Sibanda 76&rsquo;), Gift Mbweti Yadah FC: Tafadzwa Dube, Moses Demera, Arial Makopa, Jimmy Dzingai, Regis Dongo, Brian Mapfumo, Denzel Savanhu, Wellington Kamudyariwa, Leeroy Mavhunga (Last Chibwiro 86&rsquo;), Manuel Meleka (Munyaradzi Chiwara 68&rsquo;), Morris Musiyakuvi