BULAWAYO - Former Highlanders striker Tobias Mudyambanje has challenged Castle Lager Premiership teams to stop the recycling of coaches as it is contributing to the drop in standards of the local game. Speaking to the Daily News, Mudyambanje, who doubles as a coach at Lupane State University and Robert Tradegold Primary School, said something needs to be done for the country to be competitive at regional and international level again. &ldquo;For instance, if a coach is fired for poor performance at Dynamos, the same coach is hired at CAPS United. Again, later he is fired at CAPS United, what this means is he is leaving a tale of destruction,&rdquo; Mudyabanje said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think our game will improve as long as we continue recycling coaches. I think there should be a system where if a coach is fired for poor performance from let&rsquo;s say two teams, he must be suspended and given some time to go and revisit his coaching skills at lower division sides.&rdquo; At the moment, all the clubs in the top tier league and Division One re required to hire a coach with at least a Caf&nbsp; coaching license. Among those coaches in the top flight, most of them are the same faces that have been in mainstream football management for the past few years with very few newcomers. The likes of Tsholotsho&rsquo;s Farai Tawachera and Shabanie Mine&rsquo;s Takesure Chiragwi are the only upcoming coaches that have been given an opportunity to try their luck in the Premiership. &ldquo;Football is a challenging profession. Sometimes we need to give others a chance to showcase what they can do,&rdquo; Mudyambanje said. &ldquo;We have a number of talented coaches out there but unfortunately clubs are afraid to give the untried and untested coaches the chance to lead the players. &ldquo;This is why most of the clubs struggle in our league.&rdquo; Mudyambanje, who for almost a decade now runs a football academy, said while experience is a valuable asset there is need for clubs and the football authorities to work closely together. &ldquo;I would like to lay the blame not on the PSL Premier Soccer League) or (the Zimbabwe Football Association) Zifa per se but the club executives as they are the one who hire and fire coaches &ldquo; I would like to advise them to try and work with coaches&rsquo; association for an improved coaching system in the country,&rdquo; he said.