HARARE - American musician, author and academic Jennifer Kyker has released a book on the life and career of Zimbabwe&rsquo;s music legend Oliver &ldquo;Tuku&rdquo; Mtukudzi. Titled Oliver Mtukudzi: Living Tuku Music in Zimbabwe, the 290-paged book was part of her doctoral research at the University of Pennsylvania which explored issues of audience reception in post-colonial Zimbabwean popular music, with a special focus on Tuku. Kyker&rsquo;s book comes barely two years after an explosive and controversial book by Tuku&rsquo;s former publicist Shepherd Mutamba titled Tuku Backstage. In the book&rsquo;s introduction, Kyker &mdash; an assistant professor at of ethnomusicology at the Eastman School of Music and the College of Arts, Sciences and Engineering at the University of Rochester &mdash; said she was inspired by the complexity of Tuku&rsquo;s music to do an academic research on one of Zimbabwe&rsquo;s enduring music icons. &ldquo;Mtukudzi&rsquo;s music, lyrics or even his genre is not as straight forward as other Zimbabwean musicians such as Thomas Mapfumo who pursues mbira and Alick Macheso who sings sungura. &ldquo;Tuku integrates a variety of wide-ranging influences and sounds, from the katekwe drumming of his family&rsquo;s place of origin in northern-eastern Zimbabwe to the American soul music of artistes such as Otis Redding, and from South African popular genres such as mbaqanga to the distinctive timbral qualities of Zimbabwean mbira-based guitar. &ldquo;His music features acoustic and electric guitars, keyboard, and bass alongside indigenous instruments such as the hosho shakers, and more recently the neo-traditional Zimbabwean marimba and nyunga nyunga mbira, and this unique sound made Mtukudzi an internationally-acclaimed artiste,&rdquo; wrote Kyker. The American ethnomusicologist lauded the Zimbabwean music superstar&rsquo;s cooperation throughout the decade she spent researching on the book published by Indiana University Press. &ldquo;Mtukudzi was unfailingly enthusiastic and supportive from our initial discussion . . . to the final stages of manuscript preparation. &ldquo;He generously accommodated me backstage at shows, on the band&rsquo;s bus from one gig to another, and at the Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton. &ldquo;His willingness to engage in discussions about the complex and sometimes controversial elements of Tuku Music &mdash; both musical and social &mdash; is yet another example of his commitment to singing hunhu,&rdquo; she added in the 26 page-long introduction. The book Oliver Mtukudzi: Living Tuku Music in Zimbabwe which is made up of eight chapters: Hwaro/Foundations, Performing the nation&rsquo;s history, Singing hunhu after Independence, Return to Dande, Neria: Singing the politics of inheritance, Listening as politics, Listening in the wilderness and What shall we do?