HARARE - Castle Lager Premiership side Black Rhinos have made quite an interesting return back to the top flight after playing the last two seasons in the lower division. The army side returned to the top flight league after winning promotion from the Zifa Northern Region Division One League last season. Chauya Chipembere coach Stanford &ldquo;Stix&rdquo; Mutizwa has chosen continuity as he retained most of the players from last season. Players like Bruce Homora, Donald Mudadi, Herbert Rusawo, Jameson Mukombwe, Wonder Kapinda and Milton Kureva are some of the first names on Mutizwa&rsquo;s team-sheet. Interestingly, this is the core of the team that was relegated from the Premiership in 2014. However, since their return to the top flight, they have been putting in tremendous performances to lift Rhinos to a third place on the log with 14 points from seven matches with their only defeat coming in the first weekend when they lost 1-0 to log leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars. Rhinos could find themselves on top of the log if they beat Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow evening. Despite the good start, Mutizwa is not getting carried away and has insisted that their target remains of surviving relegation. &ldquo;We are very happy with how things are shaping up,&rdquo; Mutizwa told the Daily News. &ldquo;It means we are on track towards our target of surviving relegation. We remain humble and keep working hard so that we can maintain the same level.&rdquo; Mutizwa warned the Glamour Boys to expect a tough match from his side tomorrow as they are highly motivated to do well against the record Zimbabwe champions. &ldquo;This is going to be our biggest game so far,&rdquo; said Mutizwa. &ldquo;We are now ready and my boys are looking forward to this game. This will be the biggest game for us so far and we have been psyching up our boys to go and compete. &ldquo;One thing for sure is that they must not take us lightly because we are not taking them lightly too. We have been preparing for them and we are now looking to forward to the match.&rdquo;