HARARE - This is not a laughing matter! Wedding bells could be tolling soon for Samantha &ldquo;Gonyeti&rdquo; Kureya, pictured, who early this year became the first woman to be nominated for the Outstanding Comedian category by the National Arts Merit Awards (Nama). The rising comedian told the Daily News on Sunday that she has been dating a Harare-based gynaecologist for close to year. &ldquo;We are happy with our relationship and we want to take it to the next level. I am not prepared to identify him yet because we want to keep it away from the radar,&rdquo; said Gonyeti. Gonyeti added that her beau has no problems dating a comedian. &ldquo;He is very supportive and sometimes drives me to shows. The only frustrating thing for him is the fact that sometimes I hardly get adequate time to see him. &ldquo;At times I get very busy with shows and rehearsals and sometimes going for two weeks without taking a break and this frustrates him a lot,&rdquo; said the 31-year-old-comedian, who also claims that she has already been introduced to her beau&rsquo;s relatives. &ldquo;His relatives love, respect and take me seriously despite my job. It will possibly be difficult for many people to accept but when I am at home I am completely different from Gonyeti the comedian.&rdquo; Gonyeti ventured into the acting industry in 2008 but she only became a household name seven years later when she joined P.O Box TV which later rebranded to Bustop TV. At Bustop TV, Gonyeti formed a formidable partnership with Prosper &ldquo;Comic Pastor&rdquo; Ngomashi Sharon &ldquo;Magi&rdquo; Chideu. Despite the fact that Comic Pastor quit the Luckie Aaroni- Bustop TV, Gonyeti has not looked back. Along with fellow Bustop TV member Magi, Gonyeti landed the Zimbabwe International Women Awards (Ziwa) gong in the People&rsquo;s Choice category last year. Gonyeti&rsquo;s career as Zimbabwe&rsquo;s leading female comedian then went a gear up this year when she became the first woman to be nominated for the Outstanding Comedian category by Nama. She was nominated for the Nama gong along with Nqobizitha &ldquo;Q the Boss&rdquo; Dube and Ntandoyenkosi Moyo who is better known is local comedy circles as Ntando Van Moyo. Though the award was eventually won by Q the Boss, Gonyeti believes being nominated for the award was a massive endorsement of her talent. &ldquo;It shows that what we are doing as women is also being appreciated. I think I was nominated because people are now appreciating what women have to offer and how we are impacting lives positively. My career can only go up from here,&rdquo; she said.