HARARE - Rising artiste Bryan K, popular for love songs, has released his first gospel track titled My love. The song, which the Chinhoyi-born singer co-produced with Tami Bimha at Harare-based MFD Studios, has been released along with a video which was shot and directed by Chris Shoca at Hunnington Retreat Centre in Chinhoyi. &ldquo;We hardly get time to express our love for the Lord in church because people say tiri vekunyika (we are worldly) so I am gonna do more gospel tunes as and when I feel I need to show my gratitude to the most high through song,&rdquo; Bryan K said. The Heavy Machine singer told the Daily News that he has now realised that God&rsquo;s love is the only enduring one. &ldquo;After being continually disappointed by the people I love, I have decided to also sing about love of a different kind &mdash; God&rsquo;s love. I have realised that God is the only one who has had my back regardless of my shortfalls so I decided to write about His love,&rdquo; said Bryan K. The young artiste, whose last release was a duet with Zimdancehall star called Dobba Don called Ndopenga which he dropped two months ago, has, however, reassured his fans that he won&rsquo;t stop releasing the love songs that he has become associated with. &ldquo;I have been working on some good stuff that should be coming out end of this month. I have got one song called Ndoita Sei and another one called Forever. &ldquo;Ndoita Sei was produced by Mr Kamera and I co-produced Forever with a Ghanaian producer called Big H. Both tracks are more in the line of Heavy Machine,&rdquo; Bryan K said. Bryan K first attracted national prominence in 2012 when he won the Starbrite talent search competition. The 24-year-old artiste, who calls his music AfroSoul, then dropped his debut album titled Nyaya Dzerudo in 2015 before unleashing the hit Heavy Machine last year. This past year Bryan K took his craft to new heights when he collaborated with Mr Kamera on the hit Pamusika. The track has since been remixed with Nigerian hip-hop artist Ice Prince and Malawian music star Gemini Major being incorporated onto the hit.