HARARE - Rising Zimbabwean songtress Thamsanqa &ldquo;Tamy&rdquo; Moyo, 19, has described Grammy Award-winning British soul singer Joss Stone&rsquo;s forthcoming June 2 concert in Harare as a rare honour. Joss Stone, who was born Joscelyn Eve Stoker, will share the stage with local artistes Tamy, Ammara and Gemma Griffiths at 7 Arts Theatre in Harare as part of a world tour which is taking her to 196 countries. &ldquo;For starters it is such an honour to share the stage with a world-renowned artiste and an internationally-recognised female force, not to mention Grammy Award-winning one as well. &ldquo;I am humbled and looking forward to putting up a great show with my amazing colleagues Gemma and Ammara,&rdquo; Tamy told the Daily News. Tamy, who is riding on her seven-track debut album titled The 18th Rollercoaster,&rdquo; has promised to sample new songs. &ldquo;I pray and hope people will enjoy what Tamy has to offer and yes, I will be performing a few new tracks; it is definitely something to look forward to. Definitely, I hope people come out in their numbers to share this great experience with us,&rdquo; she said. Though Ammara has shared the stage with many great stars before, she is equally effusive about sharing the stage with the internationally-acclaimed English soul singer. &ldquo;I am as excited to watch her as I am to share the stage with her, which is quite rare for me,&rdquo; said the Wachu Want singer. Ngoma NeHosho director, Walter Wanyaya, told the Daily News yesterday that his organisation was delighted to be associated with an international star like Joss Stone known for hits such as Fell in Love With A Boy, The Love We Had (Stays on my Mind), Baby, Baby, Baby and You Had Me. &ldquo;Joss Stone is excited to be playing in Zimbabwe for the first time and we are thrilled to present a unique concert and a unique line-up. This one-night-only performance is part of Joss Stone&rsquo;s amazing &ldquo;Total World Tour&rdquo;, in which she is going for a record of trying to perform in every country on the planet,&rdquo; Wanyaya said, adding that the forthcoming gig would be the fifth to be organised by his arts promotion organisation. &ldquo;Since inception in 2014, Ngoma NeHosho Live Sessions have grown from strength-to-strength with previous editions hosting South African Legend Bra Hugh Masekela, local legend Oliver Mtukudzi, Victor Kunonga, Alexio Kawara, Tariro NeGitare and Mokoomba to mention a few. &ldquo;Ngoma NeHosho is designed to bring to Zimbabwean audiences a different kind of concert experience to what they are used to and to engage with all audiences.&rdquo;