HARARE - Telecomunications giant NetOne has partnered local sports journalists by providing free Internet services at the National Sports Stadium starting with today&rsquo;s African Champions League game between CAPS United and USM Alger. NetOne has provided a router from their latest innovation &mdash; One-Fi &mdash; which will connect at least 32 users to the Internet at the venue. This will enable journalists covering the match to post live updates during the match for those that are not at the stadium to follow the match. After the match, instead of rushing back to their newsrooms as the norm, the scribes can file their match reports straight from the stadium thereby saving a lot of time. NetOne public relations and special projects executive George Manyanya said: &ldquo;We have observed international best practices whereby the media, both print and electronic, is live throughout matches and as the leading network provider in Zimbabwe we saw it fit to go hand in glove with one of our key stakeholders which is the media. &ldquo;We are providing one of our best selling products which we launched early this month called One-Fi which has the capacity to connect 32 people in a radius of about 100m. &ldquo;We have seen universities and churches making use of this product and we decided to introduce it at football matches which also attract numbers. &ldquo;We have always partnered football and this match is a national match. &ldquo;We know that because of work commitments some will not be able to attend the match but because of One-Fi our media colleagues will be providing match updates to the nation and beyond. &ldquo;We are pleased that stories and images will be filed at the stadium unlike in the past where they rushed back to the office soon after the match.&rdquo; Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela welcomed the move by NetOne. &ldquo;Zifa would like to thank NetOne for partnering sports media and football. &ldquo;Sports journalism has undergone a revolution and it now demands embracing the new media. &ldquo;We are optimistic that this partnership with the media will also cover our 2019 Total Africa Cup of Nations against Liberia next month and our future international matches.&rdquo;