HARARE - Mountaineers captain Tino Mawoyo says their 2016-17 Logan Cup triumph has come as a relief for the Manicaland-based franchise after a period of underachievement. Shepherd Makunura&rsquo;s side clinched Zimbabwe&rsquo;s premier cricket title following the draw against Mash Eagles at Old Hararians on Tuesday. Mountaineers are now on 31 points and carry an unassailable 11 points lead at the top of the table with only one round of fixtures to play. This was Mountaineers second Logan Cup title following their first during the 2012-14 season under former coach Gary Brent. &ldquo;We are very excited and relieved at the same time. It&rsquo;s nice to see that we have come back as a team,&rdquo; Mawoyo told the Daily News yesterday. &ldquo;We had gone two years without winning a trophy and at Mountaineers we had been used to winning trophies all the time. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s always nice to win a trophy and for us bagging the big one &mdash; the Logan Cup &mdash; with a game to spare is a nice feeling.&rdquo; After the two years of disappointment without the title, the Mountaineers players made a commitment at the start of the season that they would end the barren run in the four-day competition. &ldquo;At the start of the season, we sat down as the players and agreed that it is time we got back to winning ways,&rdquo; Mawoyo said. &ldquo;The guys have responded well following that discussion because we have performed in all the games we have played. &ldquo;Yes, we clinched the title with a drawn game yesterday but the performance was superb. We have one more game to go and we want to finish the season on a high with another win. We are playing at home as well so we want to finish with a flourish.&rdquo; The trio of Shingi Masakadza, Natsai M&rsquo;shangwe and Kevin Kasuza all put in impressive performances throughout the competition. M&rsquo;shangwe is the leading wicket taker in the competition with 22 scalps from six matches while Masakadza is just one wicket behind from the same number of matches. Kasuza is currently on third place on the batting charts after scoring 300 from nine innings which leaves him just 48 runs behind Tuskers&rsquo; Charles Kunje in first place.&nbsp; &ldquo;I think we played more as a team this season. We have been consistent this year especially with the bat in all our games,&rdquo; Mawoyo said. &ldquo;In the previous seasons we had failed to complement our bowling with our batting. Sometimes the bowlers would do well but the batsmen would fail to come to the party. If the batsmen did well than the bowlers would not perform. &ldquo;However, this season we have perfected all the three facets of the game to make us a complete team. &ldquo;For Shingi a lot is expected from him because he is our senior bowler and it showed in the number of wickets he took this season. &ldquo;Kevin has shown a lot of maturity this season especially with the bat. In the last few years he has struggled a bit but because of the maturity, he has really performed well this season. He is now confident with the bat.&rdquo; Mountaineers now host Mash Eagles in the reverse fixture at Mutare Sports Club in their final game of the season starting on May 17 and Mawoyo wants his side to keep the same momentum as they prepare for the limited overs competition.&nbsp; &ldquo;There is still another four games we have to play in the One Day competition. I have already lost two games in that competition so need to win all our remaining matches so that we can put another trophy in our cabinet,&rdquo; he said.