HARARE - Black Rhinos&rsquo; fairytale start to life in the Castle Lager Premiership continued last night when they beat a disjointed Dynamos 1-0 at the National Sport Stadium. Chauya Chipembere moved into second place on the log following the victory with 17 points. Lot Chiwunga scored the all-important goal for Stix Mtizwa&rsquo;s men just after halftime when he profited from an Elisha Muroiwa mistake. Dynamos had got off to a positive start passing the ball around especially in midfield but did little to trouble Black Rhinos goalkeeper Herbert Rusawo. But Chauya Chipembere eventually settled in the game and went on to dominate the proceedings with the impressive Donald Mudadi and Cliff Chitsamba taking the initiative in the middle of the park. Milton Kureva was unlucky on 30 minutes after his header off a James Mukombwe&rsquo;s corner kick missed the upright by just few inches. Dynamos had the best chance to go ahead on the stroke of half time but Christian Ntouba sent his effort way over the bar after Emmanuel Mandiranga had done well on the left side to send a square ball. The army side started the second half the same way they ended the first half and they were duly rewarded on 48 minutes when Chiwunga made full use of an Muroiwa back pass to beat an advancing Tonderai Mateyaunga who was in goals for DeMbare. Mtizwa&rsquo;s side were full value for their lead as they showed a lot of composure while Dynamos were struggling to string a few passes together. With Dynamos still trying to reorganise themselves, Chiwunga thought he had scored his second of the evening seven minutes later but his effort was ruled out for offside by the referee. Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa reacted by making a double substitution bringing in Masimba Mambare and Quality Kangadzi in place of Mandiranga and Tawanda Macheka but the decision paid no dividends. Mambare came close to getting an equaliser for the Glamour Boys but his powerful diving header was brilliantly saved by an alert Rusawo. In the end, Rhinos held on for the win as Dynamos failed to find an equaliser. Teams Black Rhinos: Herbert Rusawo, Jameson Mukombwe, Wilson Chakanyuka, Bruce Homora, Sydney Linyama, Wonder Kapinda, Donald Mudadi, Cliff Chitsamba (Vincent Mhandu 74m), Milton Kureva, Benjamin Marere (Martin Mine 90m), Lot Chiwunga, Dynamos: Tonderai Mateyaunga, Obey Mwerahari, Ocean Mushure, Elisha Muroiwa, Lincoln Zvasiya, Tichaona Chipunza, Wisdom Mutasa, Denver Mukamba (Valentine Ndaba 70m), Emmanuel Mandiranga (Masimba Mambare 61m), Tawanda Macheka (Quality Kangadzi 61m), Christian Ntouba