HARARE - The 2017 Culture Week commemorations, which will run throughout Zimbabwe from May 20 to 26, will be officially launched at Nyava High School in Musana, Bindura Rural. According to National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz) spokesperson, Cathrine Mthombeni, the national launch of the event will feature various cultural activities. &ldquo;The official Culture Week launch is a national event coordinated by Nacz and implemented by the hosting province in which this year it is Mashonaland Central. &ldquo;Some of the activities that will be paraded at the official launch include street marching by artists and cultural activists, fashion show, music and dance performances, art and craft exhibition and herbal medicine exhibitions,&rdquo; Mthombeni said in a statement. She added that this year&rsquo;s culture week commemorations will run under the theme &ldquo;Consolidating Cultural Identity, Diversity and Heritage.&rdquo; &ldquo;Culture is identity and culture in its diversified format fosters co-existence, harmony and peace. Zimbabwe as a cultured nation is proud of its national identity. In Zimbabwe, chiefs play a pivotal role in the safeguarding, preservation and promotion of cultural norms and practices that inform the nation&rsquo;s spirit of Ubuntu/Unhu,&rdquo; said the Nacz spokesperson. The 2016 Culture Week commemorations were launched by Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko at Godlwayo Culture Centre in Filabusi, signalling the beginning of seven days of commemorations that showcase Zimbabwe&rsquo;s cultural diversity. The week-long commemorations are held annually in line with the 2001 Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity by Unesco that proclaimed May 21 of each year as the World Day of Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development. According to Mthombeni, Nacz decided to celebrate for a week instead of day in order to accommodate more cultural activities. &ldquo;Nacz inaugurated Culture Week in 2002 after it discovered that one day was too short a period to leave an impact in people. In addition, artists found the one day not adequate to allow them to celebrate and display their works to the public,&rdquo; she said.