HARARE - Newly-elected Zanu PF Masvingo chairperson Ezra Chadzamira said he has since moved on and is now working on strengthening the party ahead of the 2018 poll, despite calls by rivals to have his election victory nullified. The province&rsquo;s chairmanship election was comprehensively won by Chadzamira &mdash; an alleged Team Lacoste candidate &mdash; after he walloped Mutero Masanganise, who had pulled out days before polling, citing a number of irregularities. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday, Chadzamira said the election issue was now water under the bridge and those who are still disputing it were &ldquo;dreaming&rdquo;. &ldquo;We are now focusing on the 2018 general elections . . . (and) developmental projects like the Tokwe-Mukorsi Dam. We have shifted our focus. The issue of elections is now a closed chapter,&rdquo; he said, adding that &ldquo;we need to unite as a party and move forward, there is no benefit in quarrelling&rdquo;. &ldquo;Munhu anenge ane shungu about elections, dzinozopera nekufamba kwenguva zvinongopera hazvo (the anger about these elections will soon come to an end with the passage of time). The president sent senior members of the party and they did their job very well and the elections were concluded, what is now left is to build our party.&rdquo; Efforts to get comment from Masanganise were fruitless as his mobile phone was not reachable. However, last week, he told the Daily News that he was hopeful the politburo would &ldquo;deal with&rdquo; the burning Masvingo issue decisively. &ldquo;I am waiting for the politburo to deliberate on the issue. For me, there was no election done to choose the Masvingo chairperson,&rdquo; he said then. Masanganise &mdash; linked to the embattled Generation 40 (G40) faction, which in turn is opposed to Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa succeeding President Robert Mugabe &mdash; pulled out of the Masvingo poll re-run arguing it was illegal. Mugabe and the politburo had nullified results from the initial regional poll, which was again won by Chadzamira, amid claims of irregularities, including people not voting in some districts. Chadzamira, who is the former regional chairperson and an alleged Mnangagwa backer, crushed Masanganise then &ndash; polling 12 393 votes against his opponent&rsquo;s 4 888, amid allegations of rigging and failure by people in Mwenezi and some parts of Chiredzi to vote. The G40 has for some time now been described as being &ldquo;at sixes and sevens&rdquo;, following the pressure that has been brought to bear on its leading national figures, as well as the suspension of its alleged provincial kingpins who were ousted from the regional executive last month.