HARARE - International farming implements manufacturer, Case IH,&nbsp; has showcased its full line of equipment at the biggest demonstration event ever held by a single company in Zimbabwe. The event &ndash; unprecedented in Zimbabwe for its scope, scale and execution &ndash; showed the value of advanced farming practices and the brand&rsquo;s highly efficient equipment, and the profitability they can achieve. &ldquo;This type of event is the best way of showing our customers the potential of modern and efficient farming practices for their businesses, and for them to see first-hand how the full solutions Case IH offers can help them boost their productivity and profitability,&rdquo; Agricon Equipment Zimbabwe commercial manager Neville Sealy said. The Agricon team, supported by Case IH and other product specialists, conducted product presentations and field demonstrations for the 180 commercial farmers and investors in attendance. On arrival at the field location, the participants discovered the impressive product display, which showcased how Case IH is able to offer customers a full solution for their requirements. They first encountered a full line up of the wide range of Case IH tractors, which included the best-selling JX75T utility tractor, the versatile Farmall A, Maxxum and Puma ranges, and the high-productivity Magnum 340, all the way up to the Steiger 600 and 550 powerhouses. At the centre of the display, two large Case IH tents hosted the product presentations. On the opposite side of the tents were two AF7140 combine harvesters featuring Case IH&rsquo;s advanced Axial-Flow single rotor technology, the brand&rsquo;s Patriot sprayers and a selection of implements. The display was completed by models of sister brand CASE Construction Equipment. The focus of the event was on the field demonstrations of the Case IH equipment, which covered different phases of the crop cycle &ndash; land preparation, seeding, planting and strip-till, spraying and spreadin, as well as hay making and harvesting. The participating customers were impressed with the display and demonstrations. &ldquo;The presentations were very informative and the demonstrations really showed what performance can be achieved with the right equipment,&rdquo; a customer said.