HARARE - Edith Masango, who is set to become the first visually-impaired actress in Zimbabwe to feature in a one-woman theatrical production on Thursday, says her performance will be a perfect platform to show that people living with disabilities are equally competent. Masango will star in the play written by Major Special Matarirano and directed by veteran actress-cum-director Eunice Tava titled Narratives from the Dark which will run at Theatre in the Park in Harare on May 25 and 26. &ldquo;I am very excited about the play. It will be a great opportunity for me to show that there is nothing we (People living with disabilities) can&rsquo;t do. If they can act on a big stage, so can we,&rdquo; Masango told the Daily News. She added that the forthcoming play &ldquo;was a mirror of her own life&rdquo;. &ldquo;The play speaks about people living with disabilities.&nbsp; I have to admit that it was challenging during rehearsals but I got help from my director (Tava).&nbsp; Because of her help, I am very confident that I will pull it off on Thursday,&rdquo; said Masango. The playwright &mdash;Matarirano &mdash; who is also co-producing the play with Rooftop Promotions, is happy with the way Masango is justifying his decision to make her the fulcrum of Narratives from the Dark. &ldquo;Edith has a strong conviction to do good for her life and that of her family. I see a fighter; her mentality is different from others. So that is why I had to cast her and propel her as a protagonist within the country as a person living positively with disability,&rdquo; said Matarirano who was equally effusive about the play&rsquo;s director, Tava. &ldquo;Tava is a great director . . .&nbsp; she is tactful in the way she approaches plays, astute in her treatment of otherwise complex plays. She also has a convincing experience in theatre too. &ldquo;She is a self-driven, thorough, intelligent and experienced director. Actually, I have learnt a lot in the time we have started working together. In fact, it&rsquo;s a privilege for me to be working with her since she is an award -winning actress and director.&rdquo; For Tava, who has directed four plays before, Narratives from the Dark is the most complex theatrical production she has handled to date. &ldquo;Edith, who plays Gwen, is a first timer on stage and working with her has enhanced my skills as a director. All is now set for all of you to come and witness this great performance as Edith takes us on a journey of her life based on a true story,&rdquo; said the award-winning Tava.