HARARE - More than 20 arts acts will take part in Culture Week celebrations at Glen View 1 Hall in Harare on next Monday. The showcase is part of countrywide arts related activities run by National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz). In Glen View 1, the participating artistes will major in music, theatre, dance and poetry. Most of them are from Glen View 1 and will be supported by other groups from Mbare and Mufakose. The celebrations which will start at 9am and end at 4pm are being coordinated by Glenbud Arts Association, a local arts institution. Glenbud Arts Association chairperson Lumen Mubaiwa said: &ldquo;While Culture Week is an annual event coordinated throughout the country by Nacz, we only started coordinating local events last year,&rdquo; said Mubaiwa. &ldquo;Activities will include traditional dances, marimba music and ethnic culture showcases.&rdquo; Meanwhile, preparations for 2017 Culture Week commemorations that will run from next Monday till Friday are at advanced stages in all provinces, organisers said. The annual week-long programme running under the theme &ldquo;Consolidating Cultural Identity, Diversity and Heritage&rdquo; will be punctuated with diverse activities that depict the country&rsquo;s varied cultures and traditions, courtesy of Nacz. &ldquo;The official national launch of the Culture Week is scheduled for Nyava High School in Bindura on Saturday and the event will be graced by the minister of Rural Development, Promotion and Preservation of National Culture and Heritage, Abednico Ncube,&rdquo; Nacz&rsquo;s acting communications manager Cathrine Mthombeni said. Activities lined up for the national launch include praise poems from renowned poet Albert Nyathi and a local poet from Mashonaland Central Panganayi Mutukwa. Traditional dance groups will dish an assortment of dances and the dance groups include Zvido Zvevanhu Arts Ensembe (Harare), Muzarabani Katekwe Dance Group with Katekwe dance from Muzarabani, Diwa Dembe Dance Group from Rushinga will do Tsotsa dance and St Joseph Primary School, 2016 Jikinya Dance Festival champions will showcase Jerusarema Mbende. Izwi Remhondoro from Mazowe will play mbira and marimba alongside Guruve Marimba Group that is also based in Mazowe. Various traditional food and herbal medicines will be exhibited as well. Musical bands that will perform include Andy Muridzo and Jeetaz Band popularly known as Baba Keketso, 2016 Chibuku Road to Fame Afro Jazz national winners Blacksight Zim and Bindura sungura-based group Mahindekinde Stars. &ldquo;In consolidating cultural identity, diversity and heritage during Culture Week, Nacz encourages Zimbabweans to upscale the consumption of healthy traditional foods at home, in hotels and restaurants. &ldquo;As a nation, we have gone full-circle, organic and unprocessed foods have become common traditional food should be supported and Culture Week presents an opportunity to do so,&rdquo; she said.