HARARE - Fly Africa Zimbabwe (Fly Africa) will resume operations next month after an 18-month hiatus following its acquisition by a local company, Mugwagwa Resources, the businessdaily has learnt. The airline&rsquo;s executive chairperson Cassidy Mugwagwa said his company had so far invested $6,6 million into the carrier&rsquo;s operations. &ldquo;We are taking to the skies next week&hellip; The issue has been Reserve Bank remitting payments, fuels coming in, we are not going to have a launch but we are going to take to the skies first,&rdquo; he said in an interview. Mugwagwa said Fly Africa currently has got access to seven aeroplanes and is locked in negotiations to purchase two more. &quot;The first two that we are buying are second-hand currently undergoing pre-delivery maintenance at Lufthansa in Germany, they are two Boeing 737 700 aircrafts,&rdquo; he said. The latest development comes as Fly Africa &mdash; which was previously 49 percent owned by&nbsp; Mauritius-based Fly Africa Limited &mdash; was grounded in 2015 after shareholder squabbles escalated resulting in former majority shareholder, Chakanyuka Karase, voluntarily submitting the carrier&rsquo;s Airline operator Certificate (AOC) to the Civil Aviation Authority of Zimbabwe (Caaz). Mugwagwa, however, said the airline had now secured all relevant documentation and regulatory approvals to commence flights. &ldquo;There is not a single certificate or flight licence that we do not have&hellip; We were granted our AOC two weeks ago&hellip; Before that we were given our government&rsquo;s thumbs up to fly, via what they call an Air Service Permit from the ministry of Transport&hellip;,&rdquo; he said. The revamped airline is set to resume its old routes starting with local then venturing into regional flights around August. &ldquo;We are renewing the old routes, when we start to fly we are going to be doing domestic flights in what is called the Zimbabwe Triangle, that is Harare &mdash; Victoria Falls &mdash; Bulawayo and back the same way daily for a month or so, while our technical people get back into the business of things. &ldquo;A month later, we will then start with the regional flights to Johannesburg and then looking onwards to Gaborone and Lusaka &hellip;,&rdquo; he said. The new airline is, however, expected to face stiff competition from other local and international airlines such as Fastjet, South African Airways, Kenyan Airways, Ethiopian Airlines and Rwandair among others.