HARARE - Associated Newspapers of Zimbabwe (ANZ) &mdash; publishers of the country&rsquo;s inimitable independent daily, the Daily News, and its sister publications the Daily News on Sunday and the Weekend Post &mdash; yesterday rewarded some of its loyal followers in the first round of its hugely popular Subscribe, Read &amp; Win competition. Among the big winners were corporate subscribers and individual buyers of ANZ&rsquo;s titles who were rewarded for their valued and continuing support to the company during a draw which was held at the firm&rsquo;s head office in Harare, and which was witnessed by leading auditing firm, Grant Thornton Zimbabwe. This year&rsquo;s highly-subscribed competition runs until the end of June, with the grand draw to be conducted the following month. &ldquo;There has been a surge in readers and subscribers for our products over the past few months, who all readily and infectiously admit to their addiction to our offerings. &ldquo;This fact has been reflected in the overwhelming numbers of readers and subscribers who entered this year&rsquo;s competition. &ldquo;On that score, we would like to thank all our loyal readers and subscribers, as well as our most valued sponsors who have all made this year&rsquo;s competition the massive success that it is, despite the on-going economic challenges affecting our country,&rdquo; an elated ANZ Sales and Advertising manager, Francis Mushaninga, said. All that readers and subscribers need to do, to continue winning the fantastic prizes at stake is to subscribe to any of ANZ&rsquo;s three leading newspaper titles &mdash; the Daily News, the Daily News on Sunday and the Weekend Post. Yesterday, 11 lucky readers walked away with various prizes in different categories during the first round draw, including DStv decoders newspaper subscriptions, braai stands, a fitted kitchen, smartphones and holiday vouchers in Kariba. The winners for this draw will receive their prizes at next week&rsquo;s presentation. The following is the list of the winners: 1 to 2 months subscription category: Peter Sithole &mdash; who won a meal voucher courtesy of Pointe Restaurant, as well as a braai stand courtesy of Moushtec Steel and Fireplaces. Felix Chari &mdash; who won a dinner voucher courtesy of Rainbow Towers Group, as well as a braai stand courtesy of Moushtec Steel and Fireplaces. 3 &ndash; 5 months subscription category: Zanela Mukwedeya, Counselling Services Unit and Kumbula M &mdash; who all won HD Zapper Decoders with one month compact subscriptions courtesy of Multichoice Zimbabwe C Poli &mdash; who won a stand-alone kitchen unit courtesy of W2 Industries. MAK Productions &mdash; who won a $500 shopping voucher courtesy of Tiles for Africa. Dr Lovemore, CFI Holdings and MSF Holland &mdash; who each won an HTC phone with a one month activation package of 1 GB data, 60 minutes off net and unlimited on net call for one month, and $20 power plus top-up cards courtesy of Powertel. 6+ months subscription category: Ifes Zimbabwe &mdash; who won two nights holiday for two courtesy of Cutty Sark Hotel in Kariba.