
	HARARE - Philani “Beefy” Ncube will come face-to-face with his former paymasters after Harare City were drawn to face Bulawayo City in the semi-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup yesterday. 
	The other semi-final will see How Mine play either Shabanie Mine or CAPS United, who were still last night expecting to know the fate of their abandoned quarter-final match at Mandava Stadium two weeks ago. 
	By the time of going to print last night, the Premier Soccer League (PSL) Ad hoc committee was still locked in a meeting to determine the outcome of the match which was called off following crowd trouble. 
	Shabanie were leading 1-0 when CAPS fans threw missiles onto the pitch after Kudzai Nyamupfukudza’s goal had been disallowed for offside. 
	According to the rules of the competition, the PSL Ad hoc committee is very much likely to fine and boot out Makepekepe.   
	But it was the draw pitting Harare City and Bulawayo City which appeared to be the pick of the remaining teams. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	After beating Black Rhinos in the quarter-finals, Ncube had revealed his willingness to face How Mine in the semi-finals. 
	However, the Sunshine Boys will have to negotiate past a Bulawayo City side that has already sent Dynamos and Yadah FC packing out of the tournament. 
	Harare City official Hope Chizuzu is confident of making it to the finals. 
	“I think our confidence is very high and playing Bulawayo City at this point I think is the best time because they are not playing well in the league,” Chizuzu said. 
	“They are suffering in terms of their confidence and the way they are playing which is exactly the opposite of us because we are playing some good football. 
	“We are playing well and picking up points and we are happy to be facing Bulawayo City. 
	“I hope they will not pick up form when we face them.”   
	Bulawayo City official Lindela Tshuma was equally confident of his team’s chances. 
	“All things being equal I think it’s a fair draw and being among the last four teams I think it’s anybody’s game, it can go either way. 
	“Look, Bulawayo City have beaten Dynamos, the current log leaders,” Tshuma said. 
	“So basically, what I am saying is of course we don’t underestimate Harare City but the better team will win. I think our coaches are motivated to go all the way. 
	“If you look in the league we haven’t done quite well thus far so obviously this is a chance to redeem ourselves. 
	“Winning the Chibuku Super Cup comes with a ticket to represent the country in Africa and we are looking forward to give our best.” 
	How Mine official John Makoni said the gold miners are also confident of reaching the final whether they face Shabanie Mine or CAPS United in the last four clash. 
	“It’s a fair draw and we are looking forward to face either CAPS United or Shabanie Mine. 
	“We are very confident of reaching the finals, How Mine is a big brand representing Metallon Gold and we want to go all the way,” Makoni said. 
	“There is everything to play for because if we win this cup we will represent the country in the African Confederation Cup.” 
	The semi-finals are scheduled for this weekend with the PSL saying they announce the venues in due course. 
	Semi-final draw: How Mine v Shabanie Mine/CAPS United, Bulawayo City v Harare City 
	 