
	HARARE - West Indies captain Jason Holder said his side is heading in the right direction despite losing both Test and ODI series against England adding that he is happy with the youthful side that remains unchanged for the series against Zimbabwe. 
	The Caribbean Islanders arrived in Bulawayo on Wednesday ahead of the two-match Test series which starts on October 21 at Queens Sports Club. 
	But first things first, the visitors will square-off against a Zimbabwe A select side in a three-day warm up encounter from Sunday at the same venue. 
	“It won’t be difficult to motivate the guys. We are a young side. After the performances we’ve had in England and earlier in the year against Pakistan, and also in the back end of last year against Pakistan again, I think is encouraging and we have to keep heading in the direction we’re going in,” Holder said. 
	“I am seeing really good things from this group and I don’t think there should be any difficulty in motivating any of the guys. 
	“Everybody should be up for it. It’s our chance to win a series. We haven’t won a series in a while and Zimbabwe will be a good opposition for us to play.” 
	The 25-year-old bowling all-rounder has played 26 Test matches for his country batting in 45 innings with his unbeaten 103 in a drawn match against England in North Sound in April being his highest Test score, his only 100 so far sandwiched by six half centuries. 
	Holder has taken a four-wicket haul and a five-for so far in his Test career since making his debut in June, 2014 against New Zealand at home in Bridgetown. 
	“I just want the guys to focus on what we set out to achieve, just dialling in on the process. The result of the games will take care of itself once we do what is required. We have set out stuff in terms of being consistent,” he added. 
	“Consistency is something I have preached in the dressing room for a very long time and I think once we are consistent in all departments; we should get the results we are looking for.” 
	West Indies squad: Jason Holder (capt), Kraigg Brathwaite, Devendra Bishoo, Jermaine Blackwood, Roston Chase, Miguel Cummins, Shane Dowrich (wk), Shannon Gabriel, Shimron Hetmyer, Kyle Hope, Shai Hope, Alzarri Joseph, Kieran Powell, Raymon Reifer, Kemar Roach. 
	 