
	HARARE - Yadah FC’s relegation worries mounted following a narrow 1-0 defeat to How Mine in a Castle Lager Premiership match on Saturday. 
	Tinashe Makanda scored the solitary strike on 66 minutes to add to Yadah’s relegation woes as they remain fifth from bottom with 34 points from 30 matches but more worryingly, they are only three points ahead of Shabanie Mine who occupy the last relegation slot. 
	And by end of the day Yadah might find themselves deep in the relegation zone if Shabanie Mine beat Triangle by at least two goals at Mandava Stadium this afternoon. 
	The defeat left Yadah coach Thomas Ruzive a worried man. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“I think we really need to be serious and improve especially our finishing because we cannot keep on dropping points at this crucial stage of the season,” Ruzive said after the match. 
	“I am really worried because we are not getting the required results. 
	“The important thing is not to panic because there are still four matches to be played. But we really need to work hard if we are to avoid relegation.” 
	More disturbing for Yadah is that they hardly created any clear-cut scoring opportunities throughout the match raising fears among the team’s followers that they could be on their way back to the unfashionable world of division one football. 
	How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu was pleased with how his team went about their business.  
	“I think it was an important victory for us. We came here and managed to get three points and even how the team is playing in terms of ball possession although we got few chances I thought we did well,” Kaindu said. 
	“It’s difficult to have an objective now but we just want to finish strongly. If you look at the four teams that are at the top of the log I think we are a bit far. We will give some of the youngsters game time in these remaining matches because our focus is now more on the final.” 
	How Mine started strongly controlling the tempo of the game but could not turn their dominance into goals. Yadah came back a more improved side in the second half playing some purposeful football but wasted some few chances that came their way. 
	There were duly punished on 66 minutes when Makanda who was left unmarked in the box headed home from a cross on the right side to what proved the difference of the day. 
	 