
	HARARE - Tongo Charamba is among an illustrious cast of golfers who have entered to play the Hwange Open Golf Championship which was last year restricted to amateur golfers due to financial constraints. 
	The Hwange Open is set to tee off on Friday in heat-wave like conditions that have seen low lying areas in the country reach 40 degrees. 
	Charamba has recently joined the West Africa Golf Tour and will be in the company of at least 40 professional golfers who by October 16 had registered take to the greens. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	No less than 100 amateur golfers have also registered to take part in the tournament, Hwange Colliery Company Limited (HCCL) corporate affairs manager Rugare Dhobbie said yesterday. 
	“Preparations for the 2017 edition of the prestigious Hwange Open to be held from October 20 - 22, 2017 in Hwange are now at an advanced stage with the local organising committee team led by Club Captain Morgan Gorerino busy on the ground with the final preparations for the tournament which every year attracts top professional and amateur golfers from around the country and beyond,” Dhobbie said. 
	“The tournament gets underway on Friday, 20 October 2017 with the pro-am tournament, a game where professionals and amateurs are given the opportunity to rub shoulders under the sweltering Hwange temperatures currently being experienced before the main event set for two days in the golfers’ respective divisions.” 
	The competition will be played under the stroke play format with Dhobbie saying the Hwange Golf Club was in pristine condition. 
	“The course is in a perfect condition for the players to enjoy their game as a lot of work has been put in that area in the build up to the tournament,” she said. 
	“There is also lots of interest to support from Hwange Colliery Company’s corporate partners and it is refreshing to note that the professionals are returning to the competition after missing out last year due to some sponsorship challenges.” 
	The last time the tournament hosted professionals, Zimbabwe Professional Golfers Association president Gary Thompson won the tournament. 
	The former television personality clinched the golf championship after firing a total four-under-par 212 following rounds of 70, 72 and 70. 
	Thompson who was in his maiden season finished ahead of Stephen Ferreira who was two strokes behind on a two-way tie with amateur Robson Chinhoi. 
	 