
	BULAWAYO - Blessing Sahondo netted a brace as Chapungu eased their relegation worries with a deserved 1-3 victory over Bulawayo City in a Castle Lager Premiership match on Saturday. 
	Allan Tavarwisa got the other one while Bulawayo City got their consolation from Ishmael Wadi late in the second half. 
	The win saw the airmen take their tally to 40 points and jumped two places up the ladder to ninth place. 
	Chapungu are now eight points ahead of Shabanie Mine who occupy the last relegation slot although the Chinda Boys have a game in hand scheduled for this afternoon against Triangle at Mandava Stadium. 
	For Bulawayo City they remain rooted in the relegation mix with 35 points and sitting just over the relegation zone much to the disappointment of their coach Mandla Mpofu. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“It’s very disappointing especially when you consider the first goal we conceded. At this level conceding direct from a corner kick? We were not in it, we also lost possession in some critical areas,” Mpofu said. 
	“We really need to dig deeper to survive relegation. We will definitely survive relegation.” 
	Mpofu’s opposite Tendai Chikuni thought teamwork was key to their victory. 
	“It was a game where we knew Bulawayo were playing at home and we were in the same boat of trying to survive relegation,” Chikuni said. 
	“We had a strategy. It was all about application from our players. Today it was all about individual players, will and teamwork and we got the three points. 
	“At this stage three points are like gold to everyone involved in the relegation fight.” 
	Chapungu were impressive from the onset. They really showed they wanted it more than the home team as they dominated play and never gave any respect to the home side. 
	City struggled to get their rhythm and looked jittery in defence and were forced to chase shadows by the otherwise determined Chapungu side. 
	Chapungu could have opened the scores 29 minutes into the match through Osborne Mukuradare who directed his header wide unmarked in the penalty box off an Ian Nyoni corner kick. 
	The visitors kept piling the pressure and their efforts were rewarded a minute before half time when Sahondo scored a rare goal direct from a corner kick. 
	In the second period, Chapungu continued from where they left off in the first half as they attacked City from all angles with Tavarwisa, Sahondo and Mukuradare proving to be quite handful for the Amakhosi defenders. 
	Sahondo eventually completed his brace on 74 minutes following a solo run on the left side of attack eliminating one defender before unleashing a shot that gave the Bulawayo City goalkeeper no chance. 
	Wadi reduced the arrears for the home side moments later following some good exchanges with Morris Kadzola. 
	Tavarwisa then put the final nail in City’s coffin at the stroke of full time when he connected a Sahondo corner kick with a header to secure maximum points for the airmen. 
	 