
	BULAWAYO - Highlanders managed to get back to winning ways with 2-0 victory over Black Rhinos in a Castle Lager Premiership match yesterday. 
	Two goals in the second half from Peter Mudhuwa and King Nadolo were all Bosso needed to beat the otherwise impressive army side. 
	Highlanders coach Erol Akbay was happy with the win against the stubborn Chauya Chipembere. 
	“It was a bit difficult for us to play football in the first half. They were pressing us and it was difficult to play our combination football,”Akbay said. 
	“In the second half, we played good football. We created chances and scored two goals and I can’t complain.” 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	His opposite number Black Rhinos coach Stanford “Stix” Mutizwa rued the chances they missed. 
	“We played well in the first half but Highlanders came back from half time a changed side. My defence lacked picking up in the box hence Highlanders scored those two goals,” Mutizwa said. 
	“We had two chances that we could have scored but we failed. If we had scored one of them it was going to change the complexion of the game. If you miss chances you are bound to be punished. 
	“Our aim is to stay in the league and see what happens next year. We are still within our main target of the season.” 
	Rhinos played better in the first half. They were pressing Highlanders high and made it difficult for the home side to play their passing game. 
	Chauya Chipembere enjoyed the better share of the ball in the first half but they fell short in the attacking third. 
	Milton Kureva wasted an opportunity to put Rhinos ahead half way through the first half, when Highlanders defenders went to sleep and left him unattended. 
	He directed his effort wide when he could have just easily controlled the ball and picked his spot. 
	Highlanders had their own moments. 
	Gabriel Nyoni could have broken the deadlock six minutes before half time. 
	He shot wide from close range after being sent through by Simon Munawa. 
	In the second half, Highlanders came back a changed side and they started to dictate pace in the midfield. 
	Muduhwa broke the deadlock five minutes after the half time break. 
	Rhinos goalkeeper Stephen Chimusoro spilled a Bosso corner kick and it fell for Mudhuwa who unleashed a thunderbolt that hit the roof on the net to give Amahlolanyama the lead. 
	Kalunga Tambwe wasted an opportunity to score Highlanders’ second goal 77 miunutes into the match. 
	Highlanders had a good build up from the back and the final pass from Ray Lunga fell for the ineffective Tambwe. 
	Tambwe controlled the ball unmarked on the edge of the 18 yard box but directed his effort wide of Chimusoro’s goal. 
	Substitute Nadolo scored the second and cushion goal for Highlanders with his first touch of the ball five minutes before full time. 
	Lunga did the better part of the work eliminating two Rhinos defenders on the left side of attack before sending in an inviting cross. 
	The cross fell for Nadolo, who had only a minute in the field of play, and headed the ball past the exposed Chimusoro to send the home fans who had endured the chilly weather into celebration. 
	Teams: 
	Highlanders: Nedrick Madeya, Charlton Siamalonga, Bukhosi Ncube, Rahman Kutsanzira, Simon Munawa (King Nadolo 84m), Kalunga Tambwe, Godfrey Makaruse (Ray Lunga 46m), Peter Mudhuwa, Tendai Ngulube, Gabriel Nyoni (Allan Gahadzikwa 87m), Benson Phiri 
	Black Rhinos: Stephen Chimsoro, Jameson Mukombwe, Wilson Chakanyuka, Shadreck Jimu, Sydney Linyama, Donald Mudadi, Chigudu Taurai, Martin Mine (Cliff Chitsamba 70m), Milton Kureva (Roy Mwenga 60minutes), Benjamin Marere (Yamikani Sali 80m), Lot Chiwunga. 
	 