
	HARARE - Ngezi Platinum Stars shot to the top of the Castle Lager Premiership log with victory over Dynamos in a match marred by violence yesterday. 
	Qadr Amini and Xolisani Moyo got the goals that took Ngezi to 60 points, level with second-placed FC Platinum but have a healthier goal difference. 
	However, yesterday’s match at times degenerated into total chaos especially in the second half as both sets of fans fought running battles. 
	Trouble started when the Dynamos players, bench and fans took offence with a ball boy, who was behind Tonderai Mateyaunga’s goal. 
	The DeMbare fans jumped over the perimeter fence to chase away the home side’s ball boy, who had kicked a ball into the net. 
	The few police officers at the venue failed to deal with the unruly fans as they were overwhelmed. 
	A number of fans were injured in the violence with the medics at the match treating them on the pitch. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	Referee Brighton Chimene was forced to stop the match for at least 16 minutes with chaos ensuing on the pitch. 
	Speaking after the match, Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa blamed the behaviour of the Ngezi ball boy and the subsequent lack of crowd control that followed. 
	“With the proceedings going on it is disappointing to see the ball boy throwing the ball into play,” Mutasa said. 
	“But I would also urge the fans to remain calm and not invade the pitch.” 
	Ngezi coach Tonderai Ndiraya chose to praise his team for their fighting spirit. 
	“It was a really tough match played under difficult conditions,” Ndiraya said. 
	“In the first half we took the game to Dynamos with a high pressing game trying to create as many chances as possible. 
	“I thought we lacked a cutting edge but in the second half, it was a bit balanced and we were now getting the numbers into the box. 
	“That’s why we managed to get the two goals.” 
	By that time the match was stopped due to violence, the home side was already leading. 
	Amini had given Madamburo the lead in the 54th minute with a well-taken shot from inside the box. 
	The home side’s wing back controlled a cross from skipper Davison Tavari before curling in a shot past Mateyaunga. 
	Ngezi did not take long to increase their lead as two minutes later, Moyo out-jumped the DeMbare defence to head home a free kick taken by Walter Mukanga. 
	In the first half, Dynamos started on the front foot as they sought an early goal. 
	Christian Ntouba should have done better but he headed wide a cross from Cleopas Kapupurika just after five minutes. 
	The Cameroonian came close moments later when he again headed an Ocean Mushure free kick over the bar. 
	From there on, Ngezi got control of the game as the home side was able to pass around the ball on the wet surface after light rains fell at the venue. 
	The home side’s first real chance came in the 12th minute but defender Keith Marera shot way over the bar after he had been released on the right side by Tichaona Mabvura. 
	Moments later, Clive Augusto, who was unmarked inside the box headed over from another Marera delivery. 
	Ngezi were enjoying a lot of freedom down that right side where Marera and Mabvura were overpowering DeMbare left back Romeo Matova. 
	Moyo should have opened the scoring but headed over another cross from Marera. 
	The home side were almost punished shortly before the break but DeMbare forward Quality Kangadze shot way over from close. 
	Ntouba had created the chance when he led a break on the left before squaring for Kangadze. 
	The home side started the second half on the front foot and almost scored straight after the restart. 
	Terrence Dzvukamanja was unlucky to see his header come off the upright. 
	A goalmouth melee followed after the rebound and DeMbare scrambled to clear. 
	With the way they had come out of the blocks after the halftime break, it was only a matter of time before Ngezi got the opening goal and the second shortly afterwards. 
	However, the crowd trouble that followed was a bad indictment for the local game which was being broadcast live throughout Africa on SuperSport. 
	Even after the final whistle, more trouble continued outside the match venue where Ngezi fans stoned cars and buses that had ferried the DeMbare fans to the match. 
	Teams: 
	Ngezi Platinum: Takabva Mawaya, Davison Tavari, Keith Marera, Qadr Amini, Liberty Chakoroma, Xolisani Moyo, Godknows Murwira, Walter Mukanga, Tichaona Mabvura (Kelvin Bulaji 90+10m), Clive Augusto, Terrence Dzvukamanja 
	Dynamos: Tonderai Mateyaunga, Godfrey Mukumbi, Marshal Machazane, Peace Makaha, Ocean Mushure, Tichaona Chipunza, Gift Saunyama (Phakamani Dube 53m), Cleopas Kapupurika (Masimba Mambare 90+10m), Romeo Matova (Thembinkosi Simango 77m), Quality Kangadze, Christian Ntouba. 
	 