
	HARARE - Champions CAPS United are leaving nothing to chance in their bid for a strong finish in the Castle Lager Premiership and are closing in on signing Equatorial Guinea striker Antonio Fugo for the reminder of the season. 
	CAPS chief executive Cuthbert Chitima conformed to the Daily News yesterday that it’s almost a done deal and the tall striker, who is a free agent, could play a part in the team’s midweek fixture against Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. 
	Fugo left the Green Machine at the end of last season to complete his studies in his native country but is back in Zimbabwe and has been training with the Green Machine. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	“I can confirm that efforts to sign him are at an advanced stage and if all goes well he might play against Black Rhinos on Thursday,” said Chitima. 
	“We are only waiting for his clearance from the PSL.” 
	With six matches left before the season ends, it seems CAPS United still have an outside chance to for a top-four finish. 
	The Green Machine are unbeaten in their last seven league matches where they managed five wins and two draws. 
	Lloyd Chitembwe’s charges currently sit fifth on then log table with 45 points trailing log leaders Dynamos by 12 points but crucially, they have a game in hand which could see them reduce the gap to nine points. 
	In their last league match, the Green Machine dismissed Triangle 1-0 in a game they dominated for larger parts only to be let down by poor finishing and the arrival of Fugo is expected to address that deficiency in front of goal. 
	Makepekepe will be hoping to carry on with the same form when they meet Black Rhinos tomorrow. 
	Chauya Chipembere are involved in the relegation battle following an uninspiring second half of the season. 
	Rhinos currently sit eighth on the log table with 37 points but know they are far from safety as they are only separated by six points with Shabanie Mine who occupy the last relegation slot on the log table. 
	In their last league match Black Rhinos were held to a 3-3 draw by Yadah which saw them concede a late equaliser albeit in controversial circumstances.  
	 