
	HARARE - Dynamos have hit out at hooligan elements among their fans saying violent behaviour could cost the club in the Castle Lager Premiership run-in. 
	The Glamour Boys supporters showcased their ugly side in Saturday’s defeat to Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab Stadium. 
	As their team slumped to a 2-0 defeat conceding two quick goals inside three minutes, the irate Dynamos supporters could not stomach the horror that was unfolding before their eyes and turned violent twice invading the pitch. 
	In a game which was beamed live on SuperSport, Dynamos were clearly outplayed by a fired-up Ngezi Platinum Stars. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	Yesterday, club secretary-general Webster Marechera admitted that the actions of their supporters was uncalled for. 
	Marechera said the violent behaviour would cost the club in fines by the Premier Soccer League (PSL) and could make it difficult for the team to attract sponsors. 
	“We regret the conduct of a section of our fans who invaded the pitch to remonstrate perceived delaying tactics by the Ngezi ball boys,” Marechera said. 
	“We believe pitch invasion was a rather anachronistic way of expressing their displeasure, and we do condemn it in no uncertain terms. We are forced to condemn the errant few rather than commend all of them for their loyalty. 
	“In football there has to be a winner at the end of the day. Fans should accept results whether it’s a defeat, draw or a win. Such behaviour chases away potential sponsors and it should end immediately.” 
	The result on Saturday meant Dynamos remain on 58 points and dropped to third place on the log table and now trail joint log leaders Ngezi and FC Platinum, who are on 60 points. 
	Ngezi sit at the top ahead of FC Platinum as they enjoy a superior goal difference going into the last four rounds of fixtures before the season ends. 
	Marechera has, however, reminded their followers that there is no need to panic yet and it is still a long way to go before the title is decided. 
	“We can’t really start to panic now when we have four matches left before the season ends,” said Marechera. 
	“There is still a lot of football to be played and anything can happen in those matches. We are only trailing the top two teams by two points so I don’t see any reason why our fans should be panicking at this point.” 
	The Glamour Boys’ fans rowdy behaviour is likely to attract a fine from the PSL. 
	Just recently, PSL chief executive Kenny Ndebele told the Daily News that his organisation is worried by recurring violence at many of their matches something he feels could chase away sponsors. 
	Just last month, Highlanders fans attacked their Harare City counterparts during the first round fixture of the Chibuku Super Cup tie at Mandava Stadium. 
	The match had to be stopped for 13 minutes as the Sunshine Boys fans invaded the pitch to escape attack from Bosso hooligans. 
	 