
	BULAWAYO - Bulawayo City skipper Zibusiso “Mzimara” Sibanda is recovering after suffering a serious head injury during Saturday’s Castle Lager Premiership match against Ngezi Platinum Stars at Barbourfields Stadium. 
	Ngezi won the match 1-0 courtesy of Qadr Amini’s second half strike but the match was overshadowed by Sibanda’s injury. 
	Sibanda suffered a fractured skull when he clashed heads with teammate Nyasha Mukumbi in the 75th minute. 
	




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
 
	The two Amakhosi defenders were going for the same ball when the collision occurred and the match had to be stopped for a considerable time as medics treated Sibanda on the pitch. 
	The defender was rushed to Mpilo Central Hospital where he received further treatment before more tests were conducted to ascertain the gravity of the injury. 
	Amakhosi physiotherapist Khetho Moyo told the club’s official Facebook page: “Mzimara was admitted for two nights after X-rays showed that he had a fracture on his forehead. He will have CT scan done on the injury on Monday (yesterday) after which we will be able to determine if his brain suffered any injuries.” 
	After visiting Sibanda, yesterday morning, Bulawayo City team manager Edmond Luphahla said the player was comfortable but had a slight headache. 
	“We went to visit him in hospital this morning and he seemed comfortable. He, however, said he had a slight headache,” Luphahla said. 
	Sibanda’s injury will be a major blow for Amakhosi, who are fighting to stay afloat in the Premiership as they hover slightly above the relegation zone. 
	The defender is likely not to feature again this season in City’s remaining six matches starting with tomorrow’s derby against How Mine at Luveve Stadium. 
	City need to win the match as they are just one place above Shabanie Mine, who occupy the last relegation slot. 
	The council-owned side will also be without suspended playmaker Sipho Ndlovu, who picked up his third caution against Ngezi on Saturday. 
	 